


1.  KING  BRUCE  AND  THE  SPIDER 


King  Robert  Bruce  ruled  Scotland  but  was  defeated  by  the  King  of  England. 
His  throne  fell,  and  he  ran  away  to  save  his  life,  taking  shelter  in  a  cave.  After 
regaining  his  strength,  he  gathered  his  army  and  waged  war  against  the  King 
of  England.  He  was  defeated.  He  tried  again,  and  again,  but  was  defeated 
each  time.  Saddened,  he  gave  up  the  fight  altogether.  One  day,  he  saw  a 
spider  trying  to  climb  up  to  its  web.  It  kept  falling  but  kept  trying.  King 
Bruce  began  to  count  the  number  of  times  it  fell.  To  his  great  astonishment, 
the  spider  reached  its  web  at  the  seventeenth  attempt!  King  Bruce  jumped  to 
his  feet,  thinking:  ‘If  a  tiny  creature  does  not  lose  heart,  why  should  I?’  He 
brought  together  his  army  again  to  wage  another  hard-fought  war.  This  time 
he  regained  the  throne  of  Scotland. 


2.  THE  BIRD  WHO  GAVE  MILK 


Tarla,  a  poor  man,  worked  in  the  fields  with  his  wife.  One  day,  they  made  the 
field  ready  for  sowing  and  left.  The  next  morning,  the  field  was  as  before,  so 
they  had  to  dig  again.  The  third  day,  again  the  field  appeared  untilled.  Tarla 
stayed  back  that  night.  He  saw  a  beautiful  bird  settled  on  the  bush  where  he 
was  hiding,  which  began  singing  to  the  field  to  turn  around!  And  the  field 
turned  around!  Tarla  was  about  to  kill  it,  when  the  frightened  bird  promised 
to  give  him  and  his  family  a  lot  of  milk  if  he  let  it  live  on.  Tarla  told  the  bird 
first  to  have  the  field  turned  around,  ready  for  sowing.  The  bird  did  that. 
Then,  Tarla  placed  the  bird  into  a  bag  and  carried  it  home. 

Tarla  took  care  of  the  bird  and  daily  it  gave  a  lot  of  milk,  which  Tarla  and  his 
family  drank  heartily.  They  became  healthy.  When  the  villagers  asked  about 
the  secret  of  their  health,  Tarla  distributed  the  milk  to  them  also,  and  they 
were  overjoyed. 


3.  THE  MAGIC  MIRROR 


A  boy,  called  Tembo,  had  a  tomcat  for  a  constant  companion.  Once,  Tembo 
saved  a  large  snake  which  gave  him  a  magic  mirror  as  a  reward!  When 
Tembo  commanded  the  mirror  to  give  him  a  house,  in  a  flash,  the  house  was 
ready!  Tembo  went  to  the  King  and  asked  for  his  daughter’s  hand.  The  king 
said:  ‘If  you  can  build  a  house  in  one  minute,  you  can  marry  my  daughter.’ 
Tembo  did  that!  The  unhappy  king  had  to  keep  his  word,  but  sent  his  soldiers 
after  Tembo.  Tembo  tricked  the  soldiers,  but  they  learnt  of  his  magic  mirror. 
The  king  sent  an  old  woman  to  steal  it,  and  again  sent  his  soldiers.  This  time 
they  took  his  wife  back  to  her  parents,  and  put  Tembo  with  his  cat  in  jail!  The 
cat  caught  a  rat,  which  knew  where  the  mirror  was  hidden  and  brought  it  back 
to  them.  Tembo  got  his  wife  and  house  back,  and  lived  happily  ever  after. 


4.  THE  BOYS  AND  THE  FROGS 

A  number  of  boys  used  to  play  cricket  near  a  pond.  Once,  one  of  the  boys  hit 
the  ball  so  hard  that  it  went  inside  the  pond.  When  a  boy  went  to  pick  up  the 
ball,  he  saw  some  frogs  and  told  his  friends:  ‘Let’s  play  with  the  frogs  today.’ 
His  friends  agreed.  They  rushed  after  the  frogs,  which  felt  scared  and  jumped 
into  the  water.  One  boy  threw  a  big  stone  at  a  frog.  It  died.  The  other  boys 
cheered  loudly.  They  also  aimed  stones  at  the  frogs.  Some  frogs  got  injured; 
some  were  killed.  Suddenly,  they  heard  a  hoarse  voice.  It  was  so  strange  that 
they  stopped  to  look  around.  An  old  frog  spoke  to  them  in  a  human  voice: 
‘Why  are  you  throwing  stones  at  us,  dear  boys?  Does  the  life  of  another 
creature  have  no  value  for  you?  What  is  a  game  for  you,  is  death  for  us.’  The 


boys  felt  ashamed.  Putting  their  stones  down,  they  went  away. 


5.  THE  SICK  CAMEL 


A  camel  who  lived  near  the  edge  of  an  oasis  fell  sick.  When  his  relatives  and 
friends  learnt  that  he  was  alone  and  sick,  they  went  to  visit  him.  After 
journeying  for  long,  they  rested  for  awhile,  staying  back  with  the  sick  camel, 
and  took  to  eating  the  grass  growing  around. 

The  camel  felt  very  happy  to  meet  his  relatives  and  friends.  But,  when  he  had 
recovered  and  looked  around  for  something  to  eat,  he  found  that  everything 
had  been  eaten  up  by  his  visitors!  So,  the  camel  had  no  choice  but  to  trudge 
on  through  the  desert,  to  search  for  another  oasis. 


6.  JAMES  THE  SIMPLETON 

James  was  a  good-natured  simpleton.  Once,  he  was  having  lunch  at  a  friend’s 
house,  when  his  parents  and  two  brothers  ate  poisonous  mushrooms  by 
mistake  and  fell  very  sick.  His  father  was  unable  to  move,  so  he  told  James  to 
go  quickly  to  the  pharmacy  and  get  a  strong  medicine  for  stomach  upsets,  a 
dose  for  four  people.  He  made  James  repeat  his  instructions,  and  then  hurry. 

His  parents  and  brothers  kept  waiting,  but  James  did  not  turn  up.  His  father 


was  worried  for  James  was  quite  silly.  Feeling  a  bit  better,  he  went  to  the 
pharmacy.  On  the  way,  he  found  James,  doubling  up  in  great  pain  and 
cradling  his  stomach.  When  he  asked  what  had  happened,  James  said  that  as 
told,  he  had  got  the  four  doses,  and  eaten  them  all! 


7.  THE  TWELVE  HUNTERS 

The  king  ruling  over  the  Kingdom  of  the  East  was  dying  and  asked  his  son  to 
promise  to  marry  the  Northern  queen.  The  prince  was  in  love  with  the 
Southern  princess,  but  promised  to  do  what  his  dying  father  desired.  When  he 


did  not  meet  her  for  some  time,  the  Southern  princess  grew  desperate.  She 
selected  many  handmaidens,  and  disguising  themselves  as  hunters,  they  went 
to  the  East.  They  were  taken  into  the  prince’s  service,  who  did  not  recognise 
his  beloved.  When  his  wedding  was  announced,  the  Southern  princess 
fainted.  The  prince  went  to  her  aid,  and  found  his  ring  on  her  finger!  He  now 
realised  he  loved  her  more  than  anything  else  in  the  world.  The  Northern 
queen,  seeing  how  happy  the  two  lovers  were,  returned  alone  to  her  home. 


8.  FIGEATER’S  MONEY  BAG 

Once,  a  young  fellow  loved  to  eat  figs.  Nobody  knew  where  he  had  come 
from,  so  he  was  called  Figeater.  Figeater  discovered  an  old  money  bag  one 
day,  on  which  a  phrase  had  been  embroidered:  ‘Ask  and  you  shall  receive.’  It 


granted  each  wish  he  made!  At  first,  he  wished  for  a  small  sum  of  money, 
and  then,  for  gold  coins.  Having  few  needs,  he  gave  away  everything  to  the 
villagers.  But,  the  villagers  suspected  him  of  being  a  thief,  and  chased  him 
away.  Roaming  about,  Figeater  met  an  old  beggar,  who  seemed  familiar.  On 
speaking  to  each  other,  they  realised  they  were  looking  for  each  other!  The 
old  beggar  was  the  king  in  disguise,  looking  for  his  son  who  had  been 
kidnapped  by  robbers  in  his  childhood,  and  then  abandoned.  And,  that  child 
was  none  other  than  the  Figeater!  The  king  happily  returned  to  his  kingdom 
with  his  son. 


9.  THE  ARAB  MERCHANT  AND  THE  CAMEL 

It  was  a  winter  morning  when  an  Arab  merchant  set  off  on  a  long  journey.  He 
had  to  stop  at  night  in  the  middle  of  the  desert.  There  was  no  oasis  or  inn  near 
him.  Pitching  up  a  small  tent,  he  tied  his  camel  outside,  fed  him  and  gave  him 
water  to  drink.  Then,  he  had  his  meal  and  went  to  sleep. 

After  some  time,  the  camel  began  to  shiver.  Unable  to  bear  the  cold  any 


longer,  he  called  out:  ‘Master,  can  I  put  my  head  inside  your  tent?  It’s  too 
cold  outside.’  The  merchant,  being  a  kind  man,  agreed.  A  little  later,  the 
camel  asked  his  master  if  he  could  put  his  feet  inside  also.  Again,  the 
merchant  agreed.  Then,  he  pushed  his  whole  body  inside  the  tent  and  said: 
‘Master,  I  think  this  tent  is  too  small  for  both  of  us.  Why  don’t  you  sleep 
outside?’ 


10.  THE  MAGIC  VEIL 


A  poor,  young  farmer  lived  in  a  tiny  hut  but  was  happy  to  be  in  the  midst  of 
nature’s  beauty.  One  day,  he  sniffed  a  sweet  fragrance  in  the  woods,  and 
traced  it  to  a  pine  tree.  Caught  in  its  branches  was  a  veil  of  unmatchable 
beauty,  woven  out  of  the  sun’s  rays  and  moonbeams,  and  studded  with  stars! 
He  had  gingerly  removed  the  veil,  when  a  charming  young  maiden  came  and 
asked  for  it.  He  refused.  She  began  to  cry,  saying:  ‘I  am  a  nymph  and  this  is 
my  veil.  Please  return  it  as  without  it  I  will  be  unable  to  return  to  my  sisters.’ 
The  youth  said:  Tf  you  really  are  a  nymph,  then  why  don’t  you  dance  as  only 
nymphs  can?’  At  this,  the  maiden  spun  about  in  mid-air  while  her  veil  flew 
round  and  round  him,  scattering  thousands  of  sweet-scented  blossoms!  He 
was  not  sure  whether  he  had  actually  seen  this  or  it  was  his  imagination.  But 
he  began  to  cherish  nature’s  beauty  even  more. 


11.  THE  STORY  OF  KING  PRUDENCE 

King  Prudence  was  a  very  cautious  king.  Not  trusting  horses,  he  travelled 
everywhere  on  foot.  His  tired  escorts  told  a  magician  to  invent  something 
with  a  seat,  which  would  move  on  its  own.  The  magician  brought  his  new 
invention,  a  bicycle,  to  them  two  days  later.  The  king  ordered  a  minister  to 
show  how  it  worked.  But  the  minister  fell  and  broke  his  arm!  On  recovering, 
the  minister  told  the  magician  they  needed  something  better,  with  an  entire 
carriage.  A  week  later,  the  new  invention,  an  automobile,  was  ready.  This 


time,  the  minister  dashed  against  a  tree!  King  Prudence  continued  to  walk 
everywhere,  until  the  day  he  fell  down  and  broke  a  leg!  Then,  he  realised  he 
had  wrongly  blamed  the  bicycle  and  automobile  for  causing  accidents.  At 
once,  he  commanded  the  magician  to  make  horseless  carriages  for  him  and 
the  others  at  his  court. 


12.  THE  THREE  WISHES 


A  poor  woodcutter  earned  just  enough  money  for  two  square  meals  for  his 
wife  and  himself.  One  day,  he  was  about  to  cut  down  a  peepal  tree,  when  a 
woman’s  voice  called  out  to  him.  He  spun  around,  but  saw  nobody!  She 
spoke  again,  saying  that  she  was  a  fairy.  She  beseeched  him  to  spare  the 
peepal  tree  as  she  lived  in  it,  and  instead  promised  him  three  wishes.  Feeling 
sorry  for  her,  the  woodcutter  cut  another  tree.  When  he  returned,  he  told  his 
wife  about  the  fairy  and  the  three  wishes.  As  she  set  out  a  dish  of  porridge  for 
him,  the  disappointed  farmer  said:  ‘I  wish  fresh  hot  loaves  of  bread  would 
pour  down  from  the  chimney.’  Immediately,  fresh  hot  loaves  floated  out  of 
the  chimney!  His  wife  was  angry  to  see  that  one  wish  had  been  wasted  and 
said:  ‘I  wish  these  would  hang  from  the  tip  of  your  nose.’  And  that’s  exactly 
what  happened!  The  woodcutter  cursed  his  wife.  She  said  they  still  had  one 
wish  left  and  could  ask  for  all  the  world’s  riches.  In  pain,  the  farmer  cried 
out:  T  wish  these  bread  loaves  would  leave  my  nose  and  go  where  they  came 
from.’  At  that,  the  loaves  floated  up  out  of  the  chimney! 


13.  THE  DANCING  TEAPOT 


A  poor  ragman  once  found  a  badger  held  in  a  trap.  Taking  pity  on  it,  he  set  it 
free.  This  badger  could  do  magic  and  wanted  to  repay  the  ragman.  Turning 
itself  into  a  pretty  teapot,  it  placed  itself  in  the  ragman’s  sack.  The  ragman 
was  very  puzzled  on  seeing  the  teapot.  He  gifted  it  to  the  temple  priests,  so 
that  they  would  remember  him  in  their  prayers.  One  of  the  priests  filled  water 
in  it  and  placed  it  for  boiling.  And,  the  teapot  cried  out.  The  poor  priest 
screamed. 

When  the  other  priests  came,  the  teapot  seemed  to  be  boiling  water  normally. 
But  the  first  priest  called  the  ragman  back  and  returned  the  teapot.  In  the 
night,  a  small  voice  awakened  the  ragman.  To  his  amazement,  he  saw  that  the 
teapot  had  developed  the  head,  tail,  and  paws  of  a  badger!  It  told  him  to  take 
it  to  the  market,  where  it  would  make  him  rich  by  dancing  for  him.  Indeed, 
people  were  thrilled  to  watch  this  strange  object  dancing  about,  and  paid  a 
good  amount  for  this.  In  a  short  time,  the  ragman  earned  enough  to  last  him  a 
lifetime.  He  was  grateful  to  the  teapot  and  decided  to  let  it  rest.  He  took  it  to 
the  temple,  where  the  priests  promised  to  take  care  of  it.  A  thousand  years 
have  gone  by  since  then,  but  the  teapot  is  still  in  that  temple,  where  it  rests  on 
a  window  ledge  with  the  sun  shining  on  it. 


14.  THE  TWO  BROTHERS  AND  THE  KING’S  TURNIP 

There  once  lived  two  brothers;  one  being  rich  and  powerful,  while  the  other 
one  was  very  poor  and  raised  turnips.  One  of  his  turnips  grew  very  huge.  He 
would  have  needed  scores  of  guests  to  finish  eating  it.  If  he  sold  it,  the  price 
it  would  fetch  would  not  cover  the  cost  of  taking  it  to  the  market.  After 
thinking  hard,  he  decided  to  gift  it  to  the  king.  The  king  was  delighted  and 
was  sure  this  rare  turnip  must  be  priceless.  In  return,  the  king  gave  him  plenty 
of  gold!  When  the  rich  brother  heard  of  this,  he  wondered  what  the  king 
would  give  in  exchange  of  a  truly  precious  gift.  So,  he  presented  a  casket  full 
of  valuable  jewels  to  the  king.  To  reward  the  rich  brother,  the  king  parted 
with  his  most  prized  possession:  the  turnip  given  to  him  by  the  other  brother! 


15.  THE  GREAT  KOTEI  AND  THE  GOLDEN  EAGLE 

In  ancient  Japan,  lived  one  of  its  greatest  emperors,  Kotei.  According  to 
legends,  Kotei  invented  the  compass  and  sailing  boats,  which  helped  him  to 
win  every  battle.  But,  he  was  also  wise  and  just,  so  the  people  he  ruled  were 
the  richest  and  happiest  of  all  the  Japanese.  As  he  was  walking  in  a  park  one 
day,  a  bright,  golden  eagle  suddenly  flew  towards  him,  to  land  at  his  feet. 
Kotei  was  very  wise  and  asked:  ‘Oh,  Messenger  of  the  Skies,  do  you  wish  to 
tell  me  that  my  life  is  over?’ 

The  huge  eagle  nodded  its  head.  The  emperor  bid  farewell  to  his  weeping 


family.  He  mounted  the  eagle’s  back,  which  spread  its  wings  and  flew  higher 
and  higher,  till  it  became  a  tiny  speck  in  the  brilliant  sunshine. 


16.  THE  OAK  TREE  AND  THE  SUGAR  CANE 

One  day,  a  proud  oak  tree  pretended  to  sympathise  with  the  sugar  cane.  It 
told  the  cane:  ‘It’s  so  sad  that  a  gust  of  wind  can  make  you  bend  your  head, 
while  I  can  stand  tall  and  straight  even  in  the  most  powerful  gale!’ 

The  cane  shot  back:  ‘It’s  true  that  the  wind  can  make  me  bow,  but  it  cannot 
break  me.’ 

That  night,  a  terrible  storm  occurred.  When  it  was  over,  the  oak  tree  was  seen 
lying  on  the  ground,  its’  roots  up  in  the  air.  But  the  sugar  cane  slowly 
straightened  itself  up,  to  stand  as  firmly  as  before. 


17.  REYNARD  THE  FOX  AND  THE  ROOSTER 

The  famed  red  fox,  Reynard,  got  lucky  once.  Finding  a  hole  in  a  farm  fence, 
he  went  into  the  hen  coop,  and  caught  a  rooster,  but  the  hens  began  clucking 
in  fear.  Hearing  the  noise,  the  farmer  gave  chase  to  the  fox  with  his  helpers 
and  dogs.  They  roundly  abused  the  fox.  The  rooster  cleverly  taunted  the  fox: 
They  are  insulting  you.  Don’t  you  have  any  pride  to  give  them  a  fitting 


reply?’ 

With  his  self-respect  at  stake,  Reynard  turned  to  say:  ‘You  blockheads  will 
never  catch  me!’  Barely  had  he  said  the  first  few  words,  that  the  rooster 
escaped  from  his  jaws,  to  fly  up  to  a  tall  tree  branch.  There  it  crowed,  raising 
its  crest:  ‘You  are  the  blockhead!  You  will  not  be  able  to  catch  me  now!’ 
Reynard  realised  his  foolishness  but  had  to  keep  running  to  save  himself. 


18.  TREMBLE  AND  THE  MILLER’S  DAUGHTER 


A  miller  used  to  boast  that  his  daughter  could  weave  straw  into  gold!  Hearing 
of  this,  the  king  told  the  miller  to  send  his  daughter  to  him.  ‘If  she  can  do 
what  you  say.  I’ll  marry  her’  said  the  king,  ‘or  she  will  die.’  The  unfortunate 
maiden  was  thrown  into  a  room  full  of  straw  and  told  to  spin  it  into  gold 
before  dawn!  A  gnome  came  to  her  rescue.  In  exchange  for  her  necklace,  he 
turned  the  straw  into  gold.  Next,  the  delighted  king  sent  a  bigger  quantity  of 
straw!  The  gnome  again  helped  her  in  exchange  for  her  ring.  But,  on  the  third 
and  last  night,  the  maiden  had  nothing  left,  so  he  made  her  promise  that  she 
would  give  her  first-born  child  to  him!  The  king  married  the  miller’s 
daughter,  but  when  their  first  baby  arrived,  the  gnome  came.  The  queen 
offered  him  all  her  valuables,  but  the  gnome  only  wanted  the  baby!  Finally, 
he  said  she  could  keep  her  baby  if  she  discovered  his  name  in  three  days.  The 
despairing  queen  followed  the  gnome  to  his  home,  where  he  sang:  ‘Today  it’s 
wine;  tomorrow  it  will  be  bread;  on  the  third  day  Tremble,  it’ll  be  a  prince 
instead!’  On  the  fourth  day,  when  he  met  the  queen,  she  said:  ‘Tremble  the 
gnome,  leave  us  alone!’  Tremble  rushed  out  and  never  returned. 


19.  THE  ICE  CREAM  CART 


There  lived  a  little  girl  with  her  poor  mother,  who  had  no  money  to  buy  bread 
even.  The  little  girl  looked  with  great  longing  at  the  other  children  eating  ice 
cream.  The  ice  cream  seller  felt  sorry  for  her.  One  day,  he  gifted  the  ice 
cream  cart  to  her!  He  said  it  was  a  magic  cart,  and  the  ice  cream  would  never 
finish,  but  once  the  containers  were  full,  she  would  have  to  say:  ‘Stop.’ 

The  girl  and  her  mother  began  eating  ice  cream  every  day.  One  day,  when  the 
girl  was  away,  her  mother  ordered  the  cart  to  produce  chocolate  ice  cream  but 
forgot  to  stop  it.  The  ice  cream  poured  out  of  the  cart,  on  to  the  streets,  and 
buried  the  whole  town!  When  the  girl  returned,  she  found  that  her 
townspeople  were  licking  a  path  for  themselves  through  the  town! 


20.  THE  MAGICIANS’  WAR 


The  Wizard  of  Ah  had  declared  war  on  the  Wizard  of  Oh.  Oh  changed 
himself  into  a  wild  horse  and  galloped  away.  Ah  saw  him  escape  and 
changed  into  a  hare,  and  ran  off  in  pursuit.  Just  as  Ah  was  about  to  catch  up, 
Oh  changed  again  into  a  wolf  and  threw  himself  on  the  hare.  Ah  would  have 
been  torn  to  pieces  had  he  not  changed  into  a  bear,  then  Oh  transformed 
himself  into  a  lion.  To  escape  the  wild  fury  of  the  lion.  Ah  became  a  swan 
and  flew  away.  He  realised  that  Oh  was  chasing  him  in  the  form  of  a  falcon, 
and  threw  himself  into  the  sea,  taking  the  form  of  a  fish.  Oh,  who  had  now 
become  a  shark,  was  about  to  eat  him  in  a  single  mouthful,  when  Ah 
succeeded  in  reaching  shore  just  at  the  spot  where  the  princess  was  doing  her 
washing.  Ah  changed  into  a  bar  of  soap  which  the  princess  was  about  to  pick 
up,  when  Oh  appeared  beside  her  in  the  form  of  a  gold  ring.  She  had  just 
placed  the  ring  on  her  finger,  when  a  merchant,  who  was  really  Ah,  arrived 
and  bought  the  ring  from  the  princess.  The  ring  shattered  into  grains  of  wheat 
which  fell  to  the  ground.  The  merchant  became  a  hen  which  gobbled  up  the 
grains,  but  one  grain  remained  hidden  and  it  now  changed  into  a  handsome 
prince,  who,  of  course,  married  the  princess. 


inis 


21.  THE  COSSACK  AND  THE  WITCH 

A  brave  peasant,  called  a  cossack,  was  attracted  to  the  red,  juicy  apples  on  a 
tree.  These  were  magical  apples,  kept  there  by  a  witch  so  that  she  could 
capture  men.  Just  when  the  cossack  touched  an  apple,  the  witch  came.  She 
told  him  that  he  had  one  chance  to  save  himself:  ‘If  you  remain  hidden  for  ten 
hours  and  I  can’t  find  you,  then  I  will  marry  you;  if  you  fail,  you  will  be  my 
slave.’ 

Luckily,  the  cossack  had  a  fairy  for  a  friend.  The  fairy  flew  with  him,  high 


into  the  sky.  But,  the  witch  used  a  magic  book  to  tell  her  where  the  cossack 
was,  and  yelled  at  him  to  come  down!  Then,  the  fairy  changed  the  peasant 
into  a  needle,  using  it  to  stitch  together  the  pages  of  the  magic  book.  Thus, 
the  witch  lost  and  married  the  peasant.  She  also  became  nicer,  and  the  two 
lived  happily. 


22.  RITA’S  CHICKEN 

Rita  was  an  excellent  cook.  One  day  her  master  told  her  to  roast  a  chicken  for 
dinner  as  he  had  invited  a  guest.  Deciding  to  taste  it,  she  ate  a  wing.  Thinking 
that  her  master  would  notice  one  wing  was  missing,  she  also  ate  the  other 
one.  But,  she  kept  eating,  till  the  entire  chicken  was  over!  When  her  master 
came,  she  told  him  to  sharpen  his  carving  knife  for  his  dinner. 

The  guest  soon  came.  ‘My  master  plans  to  kill  you,’  she  whispered.  ‘Can’t 
you  hear  him  sharpening  the  knife?’  The  guest  fled.  She  went  to  complain  to 


her  master:  ‘What  a  strange  guest  you  invited!  He  came,  grabbed  the  roasted 
chicken,  and  ran  away!’ 


23.  THE  TWO  FRIENDS  AND  THE  PLANE  TREE 

Jack  and  John,  two  friends,  were  going  somewhere  and  had  been  trudging 
along  on  a  hot  summer  day.  At  noon,  they  reached  a  huge  meadow.  Coming 
across  a  large  tree,  they  sat  down  beneath  it,  feeling  hot,  tired,  and  thirsty.  As 


they  still  had  to  travel  a  few  hours  more,  they  removed  their  backpacks, 
deciding  to  rest.  Feeling  the  pangs  of  hunger  and  thirst,  they  took  out  their 
water  bottles  and  began  eating  their  lunch.  While  eating  his  food,  Jack  asked 
his  friend:  ‘Do  you  know  what  this  tree  is  called?’  John  answered:  ‘It’s  a 
plain  tree.’ 

‘Is  it  so?’  said  Jack.  ‘It’s  got  huge  leaves  and  a  strong  trunk.  But  no  edible 
fruits.  It’s  quite  useless!’ 

As  the  tree  heard  the  two  friends  talking,  it  felt  deeply  offended.  It  fretted: 
‘How  ungrateful  can  one  be?  They  are  sitting  in  my  shade.  I’m  sheltering 
them  from  the  sun,  but  they  don’t  want  to  thank  me,  and  don’t  appreciate  my 
worth!’ 


24.  BOILED  EGGS  AND  BOILED  POTATOES 

A  young  man,  John,  left  his  city  to  make  his  fortune,  and  returned  after  many 
years  as  a  rich  person.  Taking  undue  advantage,  a  cunning  shopkeeper  sent  a 
dozen  boiled  eggs  to  John’s  home  and,  later,  charged  him  a  thousand  ducats 
for  these!  John  refused  to  pay  such  a  high  price,  and  the  shopkeeper  took  him 
to  court.  The  trial  had  begun  when  John  reached  the  court.  The  shopkeeper 
pleaded  that  he’d  asked  John  to  pay  a  thousand  ducats  for  a  dozen  eggs, 
because  a  dozen  chicks  would  have  been  hatched  from  these,  to  become  hens 
later.  These  would  have  multiplied  year  after  year,  and  he’d  have  got  a  big 
hen  house.  When  the  judge  asked  John  why  he  had  reached  late,  John  said 
that  he  had  boiled  some  potatoes  and  sowed  them  in  a  field,  to  get  a  rich 
harvest  of  potatoes  the  next  year.  The  astonished  judge  asked:  ‘How  can 
boiled  potatoes  yield  a  good  harvest?’  John  shot  back:  ‘Just  as  boiled  eggs 
can  bear  chicks!’ 


25.  THE  FATHER  AND  HIS  DAUGHTERS 


Once,  a  man  had  two  daughters.  His  elder  daughter  married  a  poor  farmer, 
while  the  younger  one  married  a  potter.  He  visited  them  both  after  their 
marriage,  to  find  out  how  they  were  faring. 

The  first  girl  said  that  they  needed  more  water  to  irrigate  their  fields  and 
prayed  to  God  to  send  them  rain.  The  second  girl  told  him  that  she  and  her 
husband  prayed  for  dry  weather  so  that  their  pots  could  harden.  The 
distraught  father  wondered  whom  he  should  pray  for,  as  both  his  daughters 
wanted  opposite  things! 


26.  THE  FOUNTAIN  OF  YOUTH 


An  old  woodsman,  Yoshida,  and  his  wife,  Fumi,  were  happy  to  have  lived  for 
long  together,  but  were  saddened  to  think  that  one  day  death  would  separate 
them. 

Yoshida  once  went  to  the  forest  but  lost  his  way.  Reaching  a  spring,  he  drank 
some  water.  At  once,  he  found  himself  to  be  healthy  and  young  as  a  twenty- 
three  year  old!  Realising  the  spring  had  a  magical  quality,  he  returned  and 
told  the  astonished  Fumi  about  it.  She  also  went  to  the  stream.  Hours  ticked 
by.  Fumi  did  not  return.  Yoshida  went  to  the  stream,  and  found  a  baby  girl 
lying  there!  Fumi  had  drunk  a  huge  amount  of  the  magical  water!  Yoshida 
looked  after  her,  and  they  lived  happily  for  a  long,  long  time. 


27.  THE  FAITHFUL  MONGOOSE 

A  young  husband  and  wife,  Indi  and  Lavea,  took  turns  to  look  after  their  dear 
baby  boy.  They  had  a  pet  mongoose.  One  day,  Lavea  went  down  to  the  river, 
leaving  the  baby  with  his  father.  Shortly  after,  a  royal  messenger  came  to 
summon  Indi  to  the  palace.  Indi  left  the  baby  boy  in  the  care  of  their 
mongoose,  a  creature  that  is  unafraid  of  snakes.  The  mongoose  sat  beside  the 


infant’s  cot.  A  huge  python  suddenly  came  in  through  the  window.  The  alert 
mongoose  killed  it! 

On  his  return,  Indi  first  saw  the  mongoose,  whose  mouth  and  paws  were 
soaked  in  blood.  Fearing  the  worst,  he  began  beating  the  mongoose!  When  he 
had  given  up  on  the  mongoose  and  entered  the  house,  he  saw  that  his  child 
was  peacefully  asleep,  while  a  dead  python  lay  beside  its  cot.  Indi  was  filled 
with  remorse  for  having  doubted  the  faithful  animal.  The  young  parents 
began  to  treat  the  loyal  mongoose  with  more  love  and  care. 


28.  THE  BAGS  FULL  OF  FAULTS 


A  Greek  legend  has  it  that  when  mankind  was  created,  Zeus,  the  great  Greek 
god,  gifted  two  bags  to  each  person.  These  were  placed  at  opposite  ends  on  a 
pole.  One  bag  contained  men’s  own  faults,  while  the  other  contained  the 
faults  of  others.  But,  by  mistake,  Zeus  placed  the  bag  containing  everybody 
else’s  faults  at  the  front.  The  bag  containing  each  person’s  own  mistakes  was 
placed  behind. 

Perhaps,  this  is  why  we  find  it  difficult  to  see  our  own  faults,  but  easily  see 
the  faults  of  others! 


29.  THE  PIED  PIPER  OF  HAMELIN 


The  beautiful  and  rich  town  of  Hamelin  was  once  over-ridden  by  rats,  which 
ate  everything.  The  townspeople  tried  everything  from  cats  to  traps  and 
poison  to  get  rid  of  the  rats,  but  failed.  A  wandering  minstrel  came  and  said 
that  he  could  get  rid  of  the  rats  but  demanded  one  thousand  gold  coins.  The 
mayor  promised  to  pay  one  hundred  thousand  gold  coins  instead! 

As  soon  as  the  piper  began  playing  his  pipe,  all  the  rats  ran  towards  him.  He 
led  them  to  the  sea,  where  they  drowned.  The  piper  now  sought  his  reward. 
The  mayor  refused  to  give  him  more  than  a  hundred  gold  coins!  Then,  the 
piper  went  to  the  town  centre,  and  began  playing  a  melodious  tune  on  his 
pipe.  This  time,  all  the  children  began  to  follow  him.  The  parents  looked  on 
in  alarm.  He  took  the  children  far  away  from  Hamelin,  where  they  all  lived 
happily. 


30.  JACK  AND  THE  COMET 

Jack  fared  poorly  at  studies  but  he  was  well-intentioned,  and  keenly 
interested  in  everything.  When  his  school  teacher  told  them  about  comets. 
Jack  asked  when  would  a  comet  appear.  The  teacher  said:  ‘It’s  come  already. 
Haven’t  you  seen  it?’ 

Jack  replied  that  he  hadn’t  and  asked  how  he  could  see  it.  His  teacher  told 


him  that  he  could  see  it  that  very  night  by  going  into  his  vegetable  garden. 
The  next  morning,  when  his  teacher  asked  Jack  if  he  had  seen  the  comet.  Jack 
replied  that  though  he’d  gone  out  at  night  to  his  vegetable  garden,  he  could 
not  see  the  comet.  The  teacher  thought  perhaps  Jack  had  not  looked  properly, 
but  he  insisted  that  he’d  searched  hard  and  for  long.  The  astonished  teacher 
asked  where  he  had  looked  for  it.  Jack  replied  that  he  had  looked  everywhere, 
in  the  cabbage  patch,  between  rows  of  beans,  and  even  under  the  trees!  But 
then,  he  reasoned  that  he  could  not  see  it,  probably  as  he  had  forgotten  to 
light  his  lantern! 


31.  HE  TOLD  NO  LIES 


A  farmer’s  younger  brother,  fell  in  love  with  a  duke’s  daughter!  The  elder 
brother  realised  he  had  to  somehow  help  his  younger  brother.  He  made  his 
brother  wear  his  oldest  suit  which  was  mended  with  many  pieces  of  cloth. 
Then,  he  made  him  sit  near  the  hearth  that  was  built  under  a  sound  roof.  He 
handed  his  brother  a  bowl  containing  two  gold  coins,  and  told  him  to  keep  on 
passing  these  from  one  hand  to  the  other. 

When  the  farmer  met  the  duke,  he  asked  how  much  money  his  brother  had. 
The  farmer  honestly  replied  that  money  passed  through  his  brother’s  hands 
all  the  while!  When  the  duke  asked  what  kind  of  house  he  had,  he  replied: 
‘He  has  a  sound  roof  above  his  head!’  The  duke  next  asked  whether  he  had  a 
good  wardrobe.  The  farmer  answered:  ‘He  wears  much  more  clothes  than 
me!’  Though  he  had  not  got  a  single  direct  reply,  the  duke  was  very 
impressed.  And,  without  any  lie,  the  farmer  got  his  brother  married. 


32.  THE  UNLUCKY  ADVENTURES  OF  MR  BOGEYMAN 

A  rooster  and  a  hen  went  to  meet  Mr  Bogeyman,  the  person  whom  mothers 
threaten  to  call  if  their  children  misbehave.  Their  friends,  who  were  a  cat,  a 
goose,  an  egg,  a  vase  of  flowers,  a  hatpin,  and  a  needle,  went  along.  Mr 
Bogeyman  was  not  at  home.  When  Mr  Bogeyman  returned  and  went  to  light 
the  fireplace,  the  cat  who  was  in  the  hearth  leapt  out!  He  went  to  wash  his 
face  and  got  bitten  by  the  goose,  sitting  on  the  water  pump!  As  he  dried  his 
face  with  his  towel,  he  got  covered  by  the  egg  that  had  settled  on  it!  When  he 
sat  on  his  chair  to  which  the  hatpin  had  attached  itself,  he  got  a  jab!  When  he 
went  to  lie  down,  the  needle  that  was  lying  inside  his  pillow,  pricked  him!  He 
ran  out  of  the  house  and  the  vase  fell  on  his  head!  Waking  up,  the  rooster 


said:  ‘Mr  Bogeyman  must  have  done  some  great  wrong  to  be  punished  this 
way!’ 


33.  SNOW-WHITE  AND  ROSE-RED 

A  widow  lived  in  the  woods  with  her  two  daughters,  Snow-White  and  Rose- 
Red,  who  were  kind  and  lovely.  A  huge,  black  bear  knocked  at  their  door  one 
day.  They  were  frightened  but  the  bear  said  he  only  wanted  to  warm  himself 


by  their  fireside.  The  kind  girls  led  him  inside  and  they  became  good  friends. 
One  day,  the  bear  told  them  that  he  had  to  return  to  save  his  treasure  from  the 
gnome.  Months  later,  while  gathering  wood,  the  girls  chanced  upon  a  dark 
cave.  Inside  it  was  an  amazing  pile  of  treasure!  Suddenly,  a  gnome  came  and 
said:  Til  punish  you  for  spying  on  me!’  He  was  about  to  hit  them,  when  a 
huge,  black  bear  came  and  killed  the  gnome.  As  the  girls  trembled,  the  bear 
spoke:  ‘Snow-White  and  Rose-Red,  it’s  me,  your  friend!’  He  shed  his  furry, 
black  skin  and  turned  into  a  dashing  prince.  The  gnome  had  turned  him  into  a 
bear  and  stolen  his  father’s  treasure.  The  dashing  prince  married  Snow- 
White,  while  his  equally  dashing  brother  married  Rose-Red! 


34.  HOW  SIMPLE  SIMON  BECAME  KING 


Hearing  from  the  king’s  messenger  that  the  princess  would  marry  the  most 
amusing  man,  Simple  Simon  went  to  the  palace  on  a  goat!  On  his  way,  he 
gathered  a  dead  crow,  a  worn-out  wooden  shoe,  and  a  lump  of  mud.  All  the 
suitors  became  dumbstruck  inside  the  grand  palace,  and  the  lovely  princess 
rejected  them.  But  on  entering  the  court,  Simon  complained:  ‘It’s  too  hot!’ 
The  princess  said:  ‘All  the  ovens  are  burning,  to  prepare  for  my  wedding 
feast.’  Simon  happily  took  out  the  dead  crow,  and  said:  ‘I  can  cook  this  also.’ 
‘But  all  the  pots  and  pans  have  been  put  to  use,’  the  princess  said.  ‘I  have 
this,’  said  Simon,  showing  her  the  wooden  shoe.  ‘But  what  will  you  do  for 
the  sauce?’  the  princess  said  with  a  laugh.  He  then  showed  her  the  lump  of 
mud.  The  princess  had  never  been  so  amused,  and  decided  to  marry  Simple 
Simon. 


35.  HOW  HANS  THE  GIANT  WAS  CAUGHT  IN  THE  WELL 

A  young  giant,  Hans,  worked  for  a  greedy  farmer,  who  made  him  work  hard 
but  did  not  want  to  pay  him  for  his  services.  The  farmer  and  his  wife  told 
Hans  to  go  to  the  bottom  of  their  well.  They  planned  to  kill  him  by  dropping 
a  huge  grindstone  on  him!  The  innocent  and  trusting  Hans  went  to  the  bottom 
of  the  well.  But,  they  had  to  get  the  help  of  more  than  a  dozen  servants  to  get 
the  millstone  near  the  well’s  opening.  All  pushed  hard  till  it  fell  down.  Soon 
there  was  a  loud  crash!  Just  as  the  miserly  couple  smiled  happily  at  each 
other,  Hans  came  up  with  the  millstone  draped  around  his  neck  as  a  collar! 


The  farmer  rushed  to  pay  Hans  the  money  that  he  had  promised  him. 


36.  THE  MILLER  AND  THE  ENCHANTED  DONKEY 

A  young  miller  was  seeking  to  earn  money  and  found  a  donkey  that  could  do 
magic!  He  simply  had  to  say,  ‘Abracadabra’,  for  the  donkey  to  start  spitting 
silver  coins!  The  youth  was  overjoyed!  Whenever  he  needed  money,  he 
would  lock  himself  in  his  stable  with  his  donkey,  and  get  as  much  silver  as  he 
wanted!  He  stopped  at  an  inn  once  and  spent  lavishly.  The  owner  was  greatly 


impressed  and  gave  his  best  service,  and  a  huge  bill!  The  miller  went  to  the 
inn’s  stable  to  get  silver  from  his  donkey.  Out  of  curiosity,  the  owner 
followed  him  and  found  out  his  guest’s  secret!  So,  he  stole  the  miller’s 
donkey  and  kept  his  own  donkey  in  its  place.  Both  looked  the  same.  The 
miller  left  the  next  morning  with  the  new  donkey.  When  he  next  needed 
money,  he  whispered  ‘Abracadabra’.  This  time,  the  donkey  spat  out  gold 
coins!  The  inn’s  owner  never  knew  what  he  had  lost! 


37.  THE  FLYING  TRUNK 

A  handsome,  young  lad  had  a  unique  treasure:  an  old,  flying  trunk!  He  would 
lock  himself  in  it  and  go  anywhere.  One  day,  he  reached  a  far-off  city  and 
heard  that  the  czar’s  daughter  was  locked-up  in  a  tall  tower,  as  her  father 


didn’t  want  her  to  meet  any  man  who  may  break  her  heart.  Curiosity  drove 
him  to  fly  to  the  top  of  the  tower.  The  princess  and  he  fell  in  love!  The  king 
and  queen  felt  that  the  youth  had  landed  from  the  heavens,  and  agreed  to  let 
their  daughter  marry  him.  The  entire  kingdom  rejoiced.  The  youth  used  his 
flying  trunk  to  let  off  a  splendid  display  of  fireworks,  and  then  mingled  with 
the  crowd.  But  when  he  returned  to  the  trunk,  it  had  been  completely  burnt  by 
the  falling  sparks!  He  could  not  fly  any  more.  They  say  the  princess  still 
looks  at  the  sky,  waiting  for  him  to  return! 


38.  THE  WISE  SHEPHERD 


Long,  long  ago,  a  shepherd  was  renowned  for  being  very  wise.  The  king  put 
him  to  the  test,  by  asking  him  three  questions.  His  first  question  was  how 
many  drops  of  water  the  sea  has!  The  shepherd  replied:  ‘Your  majesty,  once 
you  dam  up  all  the  world’s  rivers  so  that  they  can’t  enter  the  sea.  I’ll  be  able 
to  tell  you  exactly  how  many  drops  of  water  exist  in  the  sea.’  The  king’s  next 
question  was  how  many  stars  can  be  found  in  the  sky!  At  this,  the  shepherd 
took  a  pen  and  covered  a  huge  roll  of  paper  fully  with  dots.  Then,  he  said: 
‘Your  majesty,  if  you  count  all  the  dots  in  this  sheet,  you’ll  know  how  many 
stars  there  are  in  the  sky.  ’ 

The  king’s  last  question  was  how  many  seconds  exist  in  eternity!  The 
shepherd  answered:  ‘There  is  a  mountain  as  broad  as  the  sea,  reaching  the 
stars  in  the  sky.  An  eagle  goes  to  this  mountain  once  in  a  hundred  years, 
pecking  it  with  his  beak.  One  second  of  eternity  will  pass  when  the  entire 
mountain  has  been  worn  off  by  the  eagle.’  The  king  praised  the  shepherd  and 
appointed  him  as  his  counsellor. 


39.  THE  SNAKE  AND  THE  EAGLE 


On  a  clear  summer  day,  an  eagle  was  flying  high,  scanning  the  ground  below 
for  its  prey.  It  spotted  a  snake,  dove  down  and  swooped  on  it.  But  the  snake 
had  seen  the  eagle  and  gripped  it  hard.  As  the  eagle  struggled  to  free  itself,  a 
farmer  who  was  working  nearby,  saw  this.  He  hit  the  snake  hard  with  his  axe, 
missing  its  neck,  but  forcing  the  snake  to  release  the  eagle.  The  snake  slinked 
into  the  grass,  and  the  eagle  settled  on  a  tree.  When  the  farmer  returned 
home,  the  snake  followed  him.  So  did  the  eagle.  On  entering  his  kitchen,  the 
farmer  poured  out  water  in  a  glass,  but  went  to  wash  his  hands.  The  snake 
quickly  spat  its  poison  into  the  water  and  slithered  away.  Just  as  the  farmer 
lifted  the  glass,  the  eagle  knocked  it  out  of  his  hands,  making  all  the  water 
fall  down.  Little  did  the  farmer  know  that  the  eagle  had  saved  his  life,  just  as 
he  had  saved  its  life! 


40.  THE  GODMOTHER  OF  THE  GNOMES 


A  young  lass  working  as  a  chambermaid,  found  a  very  unusual  letter  fixed  to 
her  broom.  It  was  an  invitation  from  the  gnomes,  which  she  couldn’t  refuse. 
Three  gnomes  came  to  fetch  her  and  took  her  to  a  cave  high  in  a  mountain. 
Everything  inside  was  stunningly  beautiful  and  valuable.  The  little  baby 
gnome  was  christened  with  the  young  lass  as  its  godmother.  She  was  asked  to 
stay  for  a  few  days  and  treated  like  a  queen! 

But,  when  she  returned  after  three  days,  she  found  that  everything  had 
changed.  Her  broom  was  different,  her  master  was  not  there,  and  she  learnt 
that  she  had  stayed  away  for  three  centuries! 


41.  THE  MAGIC  TABLE 


A  cheerful,  hard-working  youth  worked  for  a  magician.  Instead  of  paying 
him  money,  the  magician  gave  him  a  magic  table.  The  youth  would  say:  ‘Set 
yourself,’  and  the  table  would  serve  him  all  he  wished  for!  The  young  lad 
knew  now  that  he  would  never  go  hungry,  and  decided  to  go  home  to  his 
father.  On  his  way,  he  stopped  at  a  tavern  for  the  night.  The  owner  couldn’t 
serve  any  food,  as  he  had  had  too  many  guests  during  the  day.  So,  the  lad 
ordered  his  magic  table  to  set  itself.  The  tavern  owner’s  eyes  popped  out  at 
the  rich  feast  on  the  table!  At  night,  the  greedy  owner  replaced  the  lad’s 
magic  table  with  an  ordinary  one  that  looked  like  it.  The  youth  left  with  the 
new  table,  which  also  served  him  well.  For  the  magic  lay  not  in  the  table,  but 
in  the  lad!  In  the  meantime,  when  the  tavern  owner  gave  orders  to  the  stolen 
table,  out  came  a  stick  and  thrashed  him  soundly! 


42.  CATHERINE  AND  THE  CHEESES 

A  farm  girl,  Catherine,  always  got  into  trouble  because  of  her  stupidity.  As 
she  was  carrying  the  cheeses  in  a  basket  one  day,  one  fell  out  and  rolled 
down  the  hill.  Being  lazy  and  not  wanting  to  chase  it,  she  rolled  another 
cheese  after  it!  When  neither  returned,  she  sent  off  another,  then  another,  and 
another.  Until  her  basket  was  empty!  Growing  impatient,  she  called  out:  Tm 
leaving  now  and  you  cheeses  can  follow  me!’  When  she  met  her  husband,  he 
shouted  at  her:  ‘Why  have  you  come  empty-handed?’  The  stupid  Catherine 
replied:  ‘Don’t  worry,  the  cheeses  will  be  rolling  along  here  in  a  few 
minutes!’ 


43.  BEAUTY  AND  THE  BEAST 

A  man  once  lost  his  way  in  a  heavy  snowstorm.  After  long,  he  reached  a 
castle.  The  dining  table  had  been  set  for  a  meal  but  nobody  was  around.  He 
ate  some  food,  and  fell  fast  asleep.  When  he  awakened,  the  storm  had  gone. 
On  his  way  out,  he  saw  a  beautiful  rose  bush.  As  he  was  about  to  pluck  a 
rose,  the  castle’s  owner  appeared.  He  looked  horrible.  The  Beast  asked 
angrily:  ‘Hasn’t  the  castle  given  you  enough?  You  will  die  now  for  plucking 
my  flowers!’  The  man  pleaded  that  he  was  taking  the  rose  for  his  daughter. 
Beauty.  Beast  relented  but  said  that  the  man  should  send  his  daughter  to  him. 


So,  Beauty  went  to  the  castle.  After  some  days.  Beast  appeared,  and  she  was 
shocked!  Slowly,  she  found  that  he  was  very  kind  and  gentle.  He  fell  in  love 
with  her,  but  knew  that  she  would  never  love  him.  This  hurt  him  so  much  that 
he  became  weaker,  till  the  day  came  when  he  was  going  to  die.  Beauty  started 
crying.  One  of  her  tears  fell  on  Beast’s  face  and  like  magic.  Beast  became  a 
dashing  young  man!  Soon,  they  got  married  and  lived  happily. 


44.  THE  EMPEROR’S  THRUSH 

Once,  in  ancient  China,  all  agreed  that  the  thrush’s  song  was  their  most 


splendid  treasure.  The  emperor  had  not  seen  nor  heard  it,  and  commanded  his 
men  to  bring  the  thrush  to  him.  He  was  disappointed  to  see  an  ordinary  brown 
bird,  but  when  it  sang,  tears  of  joy  filled  the  emperor’s  eyes!  This  was  the 
biggest  reward  that  the  thrush  could  have  asked  for.  Sometime  later,  the 
emperor  was  gifted  a  mechanical  thrush,  with  many  bright  feathers  studded 
with  precious  gems.  A  hidden  switch  in  it  could  be  turned  on  to  make  it  sing. 
It  became  everybody’s  favourite,  and  the  real  thrush  was  set  free. 

After  sometime,  the  spring  inside  the  mechanical  thrush  broke  down.  Nobody 
could  repair  it.  The  emperor  could  not  sleep  without  hearing  the  thrush  sing! 
He  became  so  sick  that  one  night,  the  doctors  feared  he  would  die  before  the 
morning.  During  that  night,  the  real  thrush  came  back,  as  it  remembered  the 
emperor’s  joyful  tears  when  he  had  first  heard  it  sing.  As  it  sang,  the  emperor 
recovered!  In  the  morning,  everyone  found  that  the  emperor  was  alive, 
cheerful  and  energetic! 


45.  THE  BOY  BORN  WITH  HIS  SHIRT  ON 

A  king  was  inspecting  his  kingdom,  when  he  learnt  of  a  boy  who  had  been 
born  wearing  a  shirt!  He  was  told  that  the  lad  was  lucky  in  everything  and  a 
soothsayer  had  predicted  that  he  would  marry  the  princess  of  his  land!  The 
king  was  unsure  of  such  predictions.  He  wanted  a  rich  and  handsome  son-in- 
law.  But  deciding  not  to  take  any  chances,  he  ordered  the  lad  to  take  a  letter 
to  his  queen  at  the  palace. 

The  poor  young  boy  ran  hard,  but  when  night  fell,  he  had  a  long  way  to  go. 
Spotting  a  small  cottage,  he  took  permision  to  spend  the  night  there.  The 
cottage  belonged  to  a  gang  of  robbers!  While  he  slept,  the  gang  leader 
searched  his  belongings,  and  found  the  letter  the  king  had  written.  He  had 
told  the  queen  that  the  letter’s  carrier  should  be  put  to  death  at  once!  Feeling 
sorry  for  the  lad,  the  gang  leader  imitated  the  king’s  writing  and  wrote 
another  letter.  This  letter  told  the  queen  to  let  the  letter’s  carrier  marry  the 
princess  immediately!  The  boy  awoke  and  took  this  letter  to  the  queen.  When 
the  king  returned,  he  discovered  that  the  soothsayer’s  prediction  had  turned 
true! 


46.  THE  WAR  BETWEEN  THE  FLYING  CREATURES  AND 
THE  ANIMALS 

A  serious  quarrel  between  a  bear  and  a  woodpecker  turned  into  a  war.  All  the 
animals  sided  with  the  bear;  while  all  the  birds  and  insects  were  with  the 
woodpecker.  A  mosquito  flew  to  the  rival  camp.  He  heard  the  fox  say  that 
when  they  saw  his  tail  was  straight,  they  should  advance,  but  when  they  saw 
his  tail  go  down,  they  should  retreat.  Next  day,  the  animals  charged  at  the 
winged  creatures.  But  a  bee  stung  the  fox  so  many  times  that  he  could  not 


hold  his  tail  straight.  The  animals  retreated,  defeated  by  a  tiny  mosquito  and  a 
little  bee! 


47.  THE  CRICKET  AND  THE  ANTS 

It  was  summer.  The  cricket  sat  on  a  wheat  stalk,  singing  away  to  glory  and 
enjoying  the  warm  sunshine.  He  pitied  the  ants,  who  always  worked  hard, 
carrying  wheat  and  corn  grains  to  their  stores.  It  seemed  to  him  that  they  did 
not  know  how  they  could  enjoy  life! 

Then,  along  came  winter,  and  the  cricket  could  not  find  any  food  to  eat!  He 
had  to  turn  to  the  kind  ants  for  help,  who  gave  him  some  grains  of  wheat  to 


help  him  to  overcome  his  hunger. 


48.  THE  DISTRACTED  ASTRONOMER 

An  astronomer  observed  stars  each  night  outside  his  home.  Stepping  out,  he 
would  become  completely  absorbed  in  the  sky  and  the  stars.  One  night,  he 
did  not  see  where  he  was  stepping  and  fell  into  a  hole! 

A  passer-by  heard  him  calling  for  help  and  rushed  to  his  rescue.  But,  he  did 
ask  that  when  the  astronomer  couldn’t  even  see  what  was  under  his  nose, 
how  would  he  ever  discover  what  was  there  up  in  the  sky? 


49.  THE  IGNORANT  PRINCE 

Once,  in  ancient  India,  a  mighty  ruler  called  the  best  of  teachers  to  teach  his 
not  very  bright  son.  After  some  years,  the  prince  proved  that  he  had  learnt  all 
that  they  had  tried  to  teach  him.  But  a  wise  old  man  said:  ‘The  prince  has 
learnt  a  lot  about  the  past;  a  wise  man  should  also  know  about  the  future.’ 

A  fortune  teller  now  came  to  teach  the  prince.  Later,  the  wise  old  man  tested 
the  prince.  Showing  something  to  the  king  and  his  courtiers  in  his  hand,  he 
closed  his  fist  and  asked  the  prince  to  guess  what  was  inside.  Thinking  hard, 
he  replied:  ‘It  is  a  round,  hard,  white  object,  with  a  hole.  It’s  a  grindstone.’ 

Everyone  laughed  aloud.  The  description  was  right,  but  it  was  a  tiny  pearl! 
The  wise  old  man  then  told  the  prince  that  true  wisdom  does  not  mean 
knowing  everything,  but  putting  to  best  use  whatever  knowledge  one  has. 


50.  THE  GROCER’S  ELF 

A  young  student  went  to  a  grocer’s  shop  to  purchase  bread  and  a  few  candles. 
Having  little  money,  he  could  only  buy  the  candles,  which  the  grocer 
wrapped  in  a  page  torn  out  from  a  book.  Reading  the  poem  on  it,  he  wanted 
to  read  the  book,  and  had  to  part  with  the  candles!  A  small  elf  who  lived  in 
the  grocer’s  shop,  followed  the  boy.  He  saw  a  very  bright  light  shining  from 
beneath  the  door.  Through  the  keyhole  he  found  that  the  book  was  shedding 
that  light!  It  spread  out  like  a  huge  tree,  with  its  branches  spreading  over  the 
young  boy.  Each  fruit  on  the  tree  shone  like  a  star  and  each  flower  bore  the 


smiling  face  of  a  young  girl!  Enchanted,  the  elf  decided  to  stay  here,  rather 
than  be  in  the  grocer’s  well-stocked  shop! 


51.  THE  THREE  BROTHERS  AND  THE  THREE  SISTERS 

A  king’s  three  daughters  were  kidnapped!  Three  young  brothers  began  to 
search  for  them.  The  boys  found  a  gnome’s  footprints,  which  led  them  to  a 
chasm.  On  carefully  reaching  the  bottom,  they  discovered  an  unbelievable 
kingdom! 

Finding  a  castle  made  of  copper,  the  youngest  brother  found  the  youngest 
princess  had  been  imprisoned  in  it  by  a  three-headed  dragon.  He  killed  it  and 


rescued  her.  The  second  brother  entered  a  castle  of  silver  to  kill  a  six-headed 
dragon,  and  rescued  the  second  princess.  The  eldest  princess  had  been 
imprisoned  in  a  castle  of  gold,  guarded  by  a  twelve-headed  dragon,  who  was 
rescued  by  the  eldest  brother.  The  king  let  the  brave  brothers  marry  the  three 
princesses  and  they  all  lived  happily  everafter. 


52.  THE  YOUNG  MAN  AND  THE  GOLDEN  MOUNTAIN 

A  young  man  was  employed  by  a  man,  who  took  him  to  a  distant  isle  having 
a  mountain  of  gold.  The  employer  told  him  to  climb  to  the  mountain  top,  dig 
out  as  much  gold  as  he  could,  and  throw  it  down  to  him.  When  the  youth 
asked  how  he  could  climb  up,  his  employer  made  him  drink  a  ‘magic  potion’, 
which  was  a  sleeping  potion!  As  the  youth  slept,  his  employer  wrapped  him 
in  a  cow  skin,  and  left  him  on  the  beach.  Some  seagulls  carried  the  cow  skin 
to  the  mountain  top.  The  youth  awoke,  climbed  out  of  the  cow  skin,  and 
began  digging.  He  threw  down  a  lot  of  gold.  But  when  he  asked  how  he 
would  come  down,  his  employer  walked  away.  The  golden  mountain  became 
so  angry  at  being  robbed,  that  it  began  heaving,  and  blew  up!  The  youth  was 
thrown  into  the  air  and  landed  in  his  home!  While  the  lava  poured  over  the 
cruel  employer,  turning  him  into  a  statue  of  gold! 


53.  THE  STORY  OF  SUMIO 

An  old  Japanese  couple  was  sad  for  they  had  no  children.  Finding  a  bright, 
shining  bamboo  cane  one  evening,  they  slit  it  into  two.  Inside  was  a  tiny 
infant  girl!  Overjoyed,  they  decided  to  bring  her  up  as  their  own  daughter. 
Naming  her  Sumio,  they  loved  her  dearly.  She  grew  into  the  most  beautiful 
girl.  All  the  princes,  and  the  emperor,  wanted  to  marry  her.  Sumio  refused 
them  all.  Though  she  whispered  to  the  emperor  that  she  was  the  Moon 
Princess,  and  her  subjects  would  come  to  escort  her  back  on  the  next  full 
moon  night.  The  emperor  sent  his  army  to  surround  her  house. 


But,  when  the  unworldly,  splendid  creatures  of  the  moon  came  down  a 
pathway  of  moonbeams,  the  emperor’s  army  simply  gaped!  Sumio  was 
carried  into  the  sky.  And  she  took  with  her  the  old  couple,  who  had  loved  her 
as  their  own  daughter! 


54.  THE  CRYSTAL  PALACE 

Once,  a  prince  and  a  princess  loved  each  other  deeply  and  were  engaged  to  be 
married.  A  jealous  magician  kidnapped  the  princess.  The  prince  desperately 
searched  for  her.  At  long  last,  he  learnt  that  the  wicked  magician  had 
imprisoned  her  in  a  castle  with  tall  crystal  walls,  which  were  so  smooth  that 


not  even  a  fly  could  climb  them.  He  reached  the  castle  and  stood  outside. 
Hearing  some  cries  from  nearby,  he  went  and  saw  three  old,  hideous  witches 
caught  in  a  swamp.  He  turned  to  go,  but  their  pitiful  cries  made  him  rescue 
them. 

The  grateful  witches  gifted  him  three  things:  a  cloak  that  would  make  him 
invisible,  a  flying  horse,  and  a  stick  that  would  open  any  door.  The  prince 
wore  the  cloak,  flew  on  the  horse  to  the  highest  tower,  and  opened  the  prison 
door  with  the  magic  stick!  Returning  to  safety,  the  princess  and  prince  soon 
got  married,  and  eagerly  welcomed  the  three  witches  to  their  wedding  feast! 


55.  THE  MISER  AND  THE  THIEF 

A  miser’s  biggest  fear  was  of  being  robbed.  He  felt  that  his  money  would  not 
be  safe,  so  he  exchanged  his  entire  wealth  for  a  bar  of  gold.  He  selected  a 
place  in  his  garden,  dug  a  deep  hole  at  night  and  buried  the  bar  there, 
covering  it  properly  with  soil. 

He  kept  checking  from  time  to  time,  to  make  sure  that  it  was  safe.  But,  one 
morning,  he  found  that  the  hole  was  dug  up  and  the  bar  was  missing!  And,  he 


cried  and  cried.  A  friend  tried  to  give  him  solace,  saying:  ‘Of  what  use  was 
that  gold  to  you  when  it  was  lying  deep  inside  the  ground?  If  you  bury  a 
stone  instead,  it  will  be  the  same  for  you.  For,  what  is  the  use  of  having 
something  if  you  cannot  enjoy  it?’ 


56.  THE  GARDENER  AND  THE  GOOD  KING 

A  man  greatly  loved  gardening.  He  cultivated  his  vegetable  garden  and  lawns 
with  great  care.  He  lovingly  watched  his  roses  and  cabbages,  gently  touched 
his  tulips  and  artichokes,  and,  cuddled  his  hyacinths  and  tomatoes.  His 
garden  became  a  wonder  to  look  at,  and  his  fresh,  delicious  vegetables  were 
famous  throughout  the  land.  One  day,  a  hare  attacked  his  vegetable  garden, 
eating  up  many  of  his  plants.  He  tried  hard  to  get  rid  of  it  and,  at  last,  asked 


the  king  for  help.  The  king  was  angry  to  hear  his  good  subject  was  suffering. 
The  next  day,  he  took  his  army  and  courtiers  to  hunt  the  hare.  But,  the  horses 
rampaged  through  the  vegetable  lawn  and  gardens,  causing  far  more  damage 
than  a  hundred  hares  could  have  caused  in  as  many  years. 


57.  THE  CAT  AND  THE  OLD  MOUSE 

Wandering  about,  a  black  cat  reached  a  warehouse  where  lived  many  mice. 
The  cat  lay  down  on  the  ground,  pretending  to  be  dead.  When  the  younger 
mice  saw  it,  they  shouted:  ‘A  dead  cat!’  As  they  were  running  towards  it,  a 
wise  old  mouse  stopped  them,  saying:  ‘Always  remember,  a  cat  has  nine 
lives!’ 


The  old  mouse  then  climbed  up  a  huge  bin  near  the  cat.  A  large  sack  of  flour 
had  been  kept  on  this  bin.  The  mouse  chewed  it  open  and  the  flour  poured  out 
all  over  the  cat.  It  kept  still  for  a  moment,  and,  then,  sneezed!  The  little  mice 
saw  that  the  cat  was  alive,  only  it  had  turned  white! 


58.  THE  WHITE  SNAKE  AND  THE  BLACK  SNAKE 

The  legendary  wise  King  Solomon  had  gone  hunting  one  day,  when  he  saw  a 
black  snake  attacking  a  black  snake.  The  white  snake  was  larger,  while  the 
black  snake  was  smaller  but  had  big  poisonous  fangs.  When  the  black  snake 
was  about  to  bite  the  white  snake,  King  Solomon  hurled  a  stone  at  it,  killing 
it.  The  white  snake  slithered  into  the  forest.  A  little  later,  King  Solomon 
found  himself  facing  a  huge  giant.  The  king  was  terrified,  but  the  giant  said: 
Tm  the  white  snake.  The  black  snake  had  been  trying  to  kill  me  for  long,  and 
we  changed  into  snakes.’  The  giant  wanted  to  give  a  gift  to  the  king,  and 
offered  him  a  choice  between  gold,  or  a  gift  that  heals.  The  king  said  that  he 
had  many  riches,  and  the  gift  of  healing  would  be  useful  to  a  doctor.  When 
the  giant  insisted  that  the  king  should  take  something,  the  King  said  he  would 
like  to  have  wisdom.  The  giant  promised  him  abundant  wisdom.  That’s  how 
King  Solomon  became  the  world’s  wisest  man. 


59.  THE  OLD  SHEEP  AND  THE  YOUNG  GOATS 

As  a  shepherd  was  returning  with  his  sheep,  after  they  had  finished  grazing, 
he  saw  that  a  few  wild  goats  had  joined  his  herd.  Feeling  happy  at  this,  he 
locked  the  goats  along  with  the  sheep.  It  rained  the  next  day  so  the  shepherd 
couldn’t  take  his  flock  out.  Feeding  the  sheep  only  small  handfuls  of  food,  he 
gave  much  bigger  quantities  to  the  goats  to  please  them.  But  when  he  opened 
the  gate,  the  goats  ran  away.  Unable  to  catch  them,  he  shouted  after  them: 
‘You  ungrateful  beasts!  I  treated  you  far  better  than  the  others!’ 

‘That’s  the  reason  we’re  leaving,’  the  goats  said.  ‘We’re  new  while  your 


sheep  are  old,  yet  you  treated  us  better.  And  you’ll  treat  us  like  you  treated 
the  sheep  when  you  have  more  new  animals  in  your  flock.’ 


60.  THE  REPENTANT  SKUNK 

In  Narumi’s  woods  lived  a  very  old  couple,  who  were  helped  by  all  the 
nearby  animals  who  looked  after  them.  The  beavers  brought  them  wood;  the 


squirrels  gave  them  nuts;  the  hares  gathered  fruits;  the  bees  left  honey  on 
their  window  ledge;  the  goats  gave  milk  to  them;  while  the  birds  brought 
pretty  flowers  for  their  house.  In  return,  the  old  woman  fed  delicious  cakes  to 
all  of  them. 

But  the  skunk  was  a  true  spoilsport.  He  demanded  an  entire  cake  for  himself, 
which  the  old  woman  refused,  as  she  wanted  to  give  a  slice  to  all  of  them. 
Before  leaving,  the  skunk  threatened  the  old  lady.  When  the  others  learnt  of 
this,  they  made  a  plan.  Running  about  all  over  the  woods,  they  cried  and 
shouted  that  a  robber  had  killed  the  old  lady.  Alarmed,  the  skunk  rushed  back 
and  found  the  old  lady  lying  motionless  on  her  bed.  He  burst  into  tears, 
realising  how  much  he  was  going  to  miss  her.  At  this,  the  old  woman  arose 
and  hugged  the  woebegone  skunk,  who  promised  to  never  trouble  her  again. 


61.  THE  CRAFTY  TRADER 


Before  leaving  his  farm  for  several  days,  a  farmer  told  his  son  that  a  cattle 
trader  would  be  visiting  them.  The  father  said:  ‘Offer  our  three  cows  to  the 
trader  for  two  hundred  ducats  and  nothing  less!’  The  very  next  morning,  the 
trader  came.  After  inspecting  the  cows,  he  agreed  to  pay  the  price  asked  of 
him.  Then,  he  began  untying  the  cows  to  lead  them  away,  when  the  farmer’s 
son  insisted  that  he  had  to  make  the  payment  before  he  took  the  cows. 

The  trader  held  on  to  the  three  cows,  saying  that  he  was  not  carrying  any 
money  but  would  bring  it  later.  The  farmer’s  son  still  did  not  agree,  so  the 
crooked  trader  offered  a  guarantee.  Releasing  his  hold  on  one  cow,  he  offered 
to  leave  it  behind! 

The  simple  boy  agreed  to  this.  The  trader  took  away  two  cows  without 
paying  a  single  ducat,  and  never  showed  his  face  again! 


62.  THE  OLD  WOMAN  AND  THE  HEALER 

When  her  eyes  became  inflamed,  an  old  woman  sought  a  healer’s  help.  He 
said  he  could  restore  her  eyesight  but  demanded  a  high  price.  She  agreed.  He 
then  told  her  to  keep  her  eyes  closed  tight  while  he  performed  the  treatment, 
during  which  time,  he  stole  her  entire  furniture. 

On  opening  her  eyes,  the  woman  thought  her  vision  had  worsened.  When  she 
refused  to  pay  the  healer,  he  dragged  her  to  a  judge.  The  old  woman  told  the 


judge:  ‘He  said  he  would  improve  my  eyesight  but  it’s  become  worse.  Before 
I  could  see  all  the  things  that  lay  in  my  house,  now  I  can’t  see  anything!’ 


63.  THE  TWELVE  DAUGHTERS  OF  THE  SEA-KING 

Soaking  in  the  sun  on  a  beach,  Ivan  saw  twelve  seagulls  who,  upon  landing, 
transformed  into  lovely  young  maidens.  He  hid  himself.  When  they  removed 
their  feathery  gowns  and  dived  into  the  sea,  Ivan  hid  one  of  the  gowns.  On 
emerging  from  the  water,  eleven  girls  wore  their  gowns,  changed  into 
seagulls,  and  flew  off.  One  maiden  stayed  behind  weeping.  Remorseful  over 
his  behaviour,  he  returned  her  feathery  gown. 


The  maiden  insisted  that  Ivan  should  go  with  her  to  meet  her  father,  the  sea- 
king.  Ivan  followed  her  to  the  sea  floor.  The  sea-king  promised  to  give  his 
daughter’s  hand  in  marriage  to  him.  But  before  that,  he  said  that  Ivan  must 
recognise  the  maiden  thrice  amongst  her  sisters.  They  all  resembled  each 
other,  but  the  maiden  gave  Ivan  a  secret  sign  each  time.  Thus,  Ivan  married 
the  right  maiden  and  lived  happily  in  their  castle. 


64.  THE  FOUR  FRIENDS  AND  THE  KING’S  RING 

Once,  a  king  possessed  a  magic  ring.  He  was  told  that  so  long  as  he  wore  it, 
he  would  remain  king.  One  day,  the  king  lost  his  ring!  Greatly  worried,  he 
announced  that  he  would  let  his  daughter  marry  anyone  who  gave  him  his 
ring.  Many  tried  to  find  it,  but  failed. 

A  youth  with  three  exceptional  mates,  decided  to  try  his  luck.  His  first  friend, 
called  Lynx-eyes,  could  see  through  doors.  Man  Mountain,  his  second  friend, 
appeared  to  be  a  small  mountain  on  lying  down.  The  third  friend.  Long  John, 
could  stretch  for  miles  when  he  lay  down. 

Lynx-eyes  saw  the  ring  sticking  to  a  rock  on  the  sea  floor.  Man  Mountain 
knelt  down  and  drank  the  entire  sea  water,  while  Long  John  lay  down  to 
make  a  bridge.  Man  Mountain  brought  the  ring  and  gave  it  to  the  youth,  who 
now  married  the  princess. 


65.  THE  DRAGON  AND  THE  GODDESS 

A  long  time  ago,  the  inhabitants  of  coastal  Japan  were  mortally  scared  of  a 
horrible  dragon,  which  jumped  out  suddenly  from  the  sea,  especially 
attacking  children.  Beltana,  who  was  the  goddess  of  happiness,  saw  what  was 
happening  from  the  heavens.  She  felt  sorry  for  the  people,  and  the  dragon. 
The  gentle  goddess  reasoned:  ‘Perhaps  the  dragon  is  so  angry  as  he  is  forced 
to  live  alone  in  the  deep  ocean.  If  he  has  not  been  treated  kindly,  how  can  he 
be  kind  to  others?’ 


Climbing  aboard  her  swan-shaped  cloud,  she  setded  on  the  ocean’s  surface 
and  called  out  to  the  dragon.  The  sea  began  to  bubble  and  then  opened  to 
reveal  the  dragon’s  home,  a  lonely  and  barren  island!  The  goddess  gestured  at 
it.  At  once,  the  island  was  covered  with  lovely  blossoms,  fruit  trees,  and 
brooks!  The  dragon  was  astonished  to  see  the  strange  and  pretty  things. 
Beltana  drew  near  it  fearlessly,  and  smiled.  Her  warm  smile  had  a  calming 
effect  on  the  savage  dragon,  changing  it  into  a  gentle  giant!  Thenceforth,  the 
dragon  never  attacked  children,  but  began  to  play  with  them. 


66.  THE  SON  OF  THE  TSAR  AND  THE  WITCH’S  NIECE 

A  prince  saw  a  charming  young  girl,  who  had  learnt  how  to  do  magic  from 
her  aunt,  a  witch.  Both  fell  in  love.  He  took  her  to  his  palace,  but  said  he 
would  go  alone  first  to  inform  his  father,  the  tsar.  The  girl  warned  the  prince 


not  to  kiss  his  sister  or  he  would  fall  under  a  spell,  and  forget  all  about  her. 
But  the  prince  kissed  his  sister  on  meeting  her,  and  forgot  his  sweetheart. 
Days  flew  by  and  the  prince  became  engaged  to  a  princess.  There  was  great 
rejoicing.  The  witch’s  niece  baked  a  huge  cake.  As  soon  as  the  prince  cut  it, 
two  doves  flew  out.  The  she-dove  flew  off  with  a  piece  of  cake.  When  the 
second  dove  asked  her  to  share  it  with  her,  the  she-dove  said:  T  can’t.  If  I  do, 
you’ll  forget  me  just  as  the  prince  forgot  his  first  love.’  Like  magic,  the 
prince  remembered  everything!  He  called  his  true  love  and  married  her 
amidst  gay  revelry. 


67.  THE  THREE  GIFTS  THAT  THE  EAGLE  GAVE  THE 


TSAR 


A  tsar  had  gone  hunting  one  day.  He  was  about  to  shoot  down  an  eagle,  when 
it  begged  him  to  spare  its  life,  saying:  ‘Let  me  live!  Let  me  stay  with  you  for 
three  years,  and  you  will  be  very  happy  if  you  did  so.’ 

The  tsar  spared  its  life,  and  took  it  to  his  castle.  The  eagle  began  eating  each 
and  every  lamb  and  calf  that  belonged  to  the  tsar.  Soon,  the  tsar  had  no 
livestock  left,  and  sold  most  of  what  he  had  to  feed  the  eagle.  But  he  kept  his 
promise  and  looked  after  the  eagle  for  three  years.  After  three  years,  the  eagle 
told  the  tsar  to  sit  on  its  back  and  flew  up  high  over  the  sea.  The  tsar  felt 
afraid  that  he  might  fall  and  drown,  but  the  eagle  brought  him  down  safely. 
Then,  it  told  the  tsar:  ‘You  have  learnt  from  me  how  to  keep  your  promise,  to 
be  generous,  and  to  be  afraid  of  death,  and  you  don’t  need  me  anymore.’ 

The  eagle  left  him  then.  The  wise  tsar  remembered  all  that  he  had  learnt  from 
the  eagle.  He  became  a  very  wise  ruler  and  soon  became  the  world’s 
mightiest  king. 


68.  THE  SEVEN  LEAGUE  BOOTS 

Albert  was  a  curious  child.  Once  he  was  exploring  the  woods,  when  he  came 
upon  a  big  house.  Unknown  to  him,  it  belonged  to  an  ogre!  Whenever  the 
ogre  smelt  a  child  near  him,  he  would  cry  out:  ‘Fee,  Fi,  Fo,  Foy,  I  smell  the 
blood  of  a  little  boy!’  When  Albert  heard  this,  he  fled  at  once.  The  ogre 
screamed  to  his  wife:  ‘Quick,  give  me  my  seven  league  boots!’ 

In  those  boots,  the  ogre  could  cross  mountains  or  rivers  with  just  one  step, 


but  Albert  managed  to  hide  from  him.  When  the  ogre  was  tired  and  fell  fast 
asleep,  Albert  gently  removed  the  ogre’s  boots  from  his  feet  and  stepped  into 
them.  Being  magic  boots,  they  fitted  him  exactly!  Albert  saved  himself  from 
the  ogre,  and  became  the  chief  royal  messenger  of  his  kingdom. 


69.  THE  DOG  WITH  THE  LITTLE  BELL 

Once,  a  dog  was  in  the  habit  of  biting  anyone  who  was  near  it.  Its  master 
decided  to  hang  a  bell  attached  to  its  collar  around  the  neck,  so  that  people 
would  know  when  the  dog  was  nearing,  and  stay  away  from  its  powerful  jaws 
and  sharp  teeth. 


The  dog  boasted  that  the  tinkle  of  its  little  bell  scared  people  away!  Then  an 
old  dog  put  him  wise  to  it:  This  warns  people  to  stay  away  from  you  because 
of  your  bad  habit.  It  doesn’t  glorify  you,  but  adds  to  your  shame!’ 


70.  THE  HUNTER  AND  THE  FISHERMAN 

A  Japanese  emperor  had  two  sons.  The  older  one  loved  to  hunt;  the  younger 
one  loved  fishing.  They  decided  to  exchange  their  roles  one  day.  Unluckily, 
the  fishing  hook  was  misplaced  by  the  older  brother.  This  greatly  angered  the 
younger  brother,  so  the  hunting  prince  promised  to  search  the  depths  of  the 


sea  till  he  found  the  fish  hook. 


After  many  hours,  a  crocodile  carried  the  hunting  prince  on  his  back  to  the 
helpful  sea-king’s  palace,  who  ordered  a  search  and  gave  the  missing  hook  to 
him.  He  also  gifted  the  prince  two  stones:  a  black  stone  that  could  make 
oceans  rise  over  the  earth,  and  a  white  stone  that  lowered  the  water  level.  The 
hunting  prince  returned  to  find  that  his  father  had  died,  and  his  younger 
brother  had  become  the  emperor!  As  the  crown  actually  belonged  to  the  older 
brother,  the  younger  one  ordered  his  guards  to  kill  him!  Holding  the  black 
stone  in  his  hand,  the  hunting  prince  squeezed  it  hard.  Immediately,  the  sea 
swept  over  the  land,  carrying  away  the  soldiers  and  his  younger  brother. 
About  to  drown,  the  younger  brother  begged  for  mercy.  The  older  brother 
plunged  into  the  flood  to  rescue  his  brother.  He  squeezed  the  white  stone,  and 
the  waters  receded.  The  younger  brother  gave  up  his  crown,  and  remained 
faithful  to  his  brother. 


71.  THE  MAD  FISHERMAN 

Once,  on  market  day,  the  market  was  crowded  with  carts  and  all  types  of 
animals.  Peddlers,  merchants,  breeders,  farmers,  noblemen,  and  clowns  came. 
Even  the  king  was  expected.  In  between  all  this  excitement,  a  foal  was  born 
in  a  stable.  Terrified  of  the  noise,  as  soon  as  it  found  its  legs,  it  ran  to  hide 
between  two  oxen.  When  the  foal’s  owner  claimed  the  foal,  the  oxen’s  owner 
said  that  the  foal  was  his  for  it  had  chosen  to  be  with  his  oxen!  The  king  also 


agreed  with  the  oxen  owner.  The  next  day,  the  king  was  travelling  in  his 
carriage,  when  he  saw  the  real  owner  of  the  foal  casting  a  fishing  net  in  the 
middle  of  the  road.  People  were  very  amused,  but  the  king  asked  him:  ‘What 
are  you  up  to?’  The  man  said:  ‘Your  majesty,  I’m  fishing.  When  two  oxen 
can  become  parents  to  a  foal,  can’t  I  fish  in  the  middle  of  the  road?’ 


72.  THE  MAD  KING  AND  HIS  FAITHFUL  WIFE 

A  king  once  turned  his  wife  out  after  living  happily  with  her  for  long.  The 
queen  could  not  understand  his  behaviour:  Was  it  jealousy?  Did  someone 
poison  his  ears  against  her?  Had  he  become  slightly  unsound?  Whatever  the 


reason,  the  queen  loved  him  and  did  not  wish  to  leave.  The  king  granted  one 
concession  and  told  his  wife:  ‘You  can  take  to  your  parents’  house,  what  you 
hold  most  valuable  and  dear,  from  the  palace.’ 

The  next  day,  the  king  woke  up  in  a  bed  and  room  that  were  not  his!  He 
called  out  to  his  servants.  Instead,  his  queen  came  running  in.  Surprised  to 
see  her,  he  asked:  ‘Where  am  I?’ 

The  queen  tearfully  reminded  him  that  as  he  had  promised  she  could  take 
what  she  valued  most  to  her  parents’  house,  she  had  made  the  servants  carry 
him  while  he  slept!  Remorseful  of  his  behaviour,  the  king  apologised  and 
embraced  his  queen.  Happily  they  went  back  to  their  palace. 


73.  LITTLE  BROTHER,  LITTLE  SISTER 

A  small  boy  and  girl,  who  had  a  cruel  witch  for  a  stepmother,  ran  away  from 
her  into  the  forest.  After  running  for  long,  the  brother  felt  thirsty.  The  boy 
was  about  to  quench  his  thirst  from  a  spring,  when  the  witch  whispered  in  the 
girl’s  ears:  ‘Whoever  drinks  from  here  will  become  a  fawn!’  The  sister  turned 
to  stop  her  brother.  But  it  was  too  late!  He  had  turned  into  a  fawn!  Weeping, 


the  girl  led  the  fawn  into  the  forest.  Finding  an  empty  cottage,  they  began  to 
live  there. 

One  day,  the  fawn  wandered  far.  The  king,  who  had  gone  hunting,  saw  the 
fawn  and  chased  it.  Frightened,  the  fawn  ran  inside  its  cottage.  The  king 
entered  the  cottage  and  saw  a  beautiful  girl  tenderly  stroking  the  fawn.  Struck 
by  her  beauty,  the  king  sought  her  hand  in  marriage.  The  girl  was  so 
overjoyed  that  she  started  crying.  One  tear  fell  on  the  fawn  beside  her, 
breaking  the  evil  spell  on  him.  He  turned  into  her  brother  again!  The  king 
took  them  to  his  palace.  He  soon  married  the  girl.  And  they  all  lived  happily 
thereafter. 


74.  THE  KNIGHT  AND  THE  BEAUTIFUL  WITCH 


A  young  knight  rescued  a  charming  princess  from  a  wicked  magician,  and 
rode  away,  but  the  magician  followed  them.  The  princess  also  knew  some 
magic.  She  changed  herself  into  a  jug,  the  young  knight  into  an  old  man,  and 
his  horse  into  a  well.  When  the  magician  asked  about  her,  the  old  man  sent 
him  on  the  wrong  path.  Realising  that  he  had  been  tricked,  the  magician 
returned. 

This  time,  the  princess  changed  into  a  duck,  the  knight  became  a  poppy,  and 
the  horse  was  a  chocolate  river  flowing  between  two  banks  of  marzipan! 
Greedily,  the  magician  ate  so  much  that  he  burst!  At  last,  the  princess  and  the 
knight  were  safe  and  swore  to  never  part. 


75.  THE  KING’S  FIELD  AND  THE  GOLD  MORTAR  BOWL 


A  king  took  pity  on  a  very  poor  peasant  and  gifted  him  a  tiny  piece  of  land,  to 
grow  food  for  his  family.  While  ploughing  his  field,  the  peasant  dug  out  a 
heavy  mortar  bowl  made  of  gold.  He  decided  to  give  it  to  the  king,  who  was 
the  true  owner.  His  daughter  told  him  not  to  do  so,  saying:  The  king  will 
demand  for  the  pestle  also,  and  we  will  have  a  hard  time  then.’  The  farmer 
replied:  ‘How  can  he  ask  for  something  that  we  don’t  have?’  Against  her 
wishes,  he  went  to  the  king.  But  his  daughter’s  fears  came  true!  When  the 
peasant  said  that  he  did  not  have  the  pestle,  the  king  accused  him  of  lying  and 
threw  him  into  prison,  where  he  starved  for  many  days.  The  poor  man  bitterly 
regretted  not  having  listened  to  his  daughter!  When  the  king  heard  him  say 
this,  he  wanted  to  know  what  else  she  had  said,  so  the  farmer  told  him.  The 
amazed  king  sent  for  her.  He  freed  the  girl’s  father  and  put  her  in  command 
of  his  treasury. 


76.  YVETTE’S  DAYDREAMS 

Young  Yvette  was  a  poor  but  pretty  girl.  She  carried  a  jug  of  fresh  milk  on 
her  head  one  day  to  sell  it  in  the  market.  As  she  walked,  she  began  to 
daydream  what  she  would  do  with  the  money  that  she  earned.  First  she 
planned  to  buy  a  hen,  then  to  sell  its  eggs,  and  buy  a  goose.  The  goose  would 
lay  bigger  eggs,  making  more  money  for  her,  with  which  she  would  buy  a 
sheep. 

Then,  Yvette  began  making  grand  plans  to  make  a  beautiful  dress  for  herself 
from  the  sheep’s  wool,  sell  its  milk,  and  make  lots  of  cheese.  Then,  she 


would  sell  the  cheese  to  buy  a  stylish  hat  and  a  pair  of  dancing  shoes.  She  felt 
she  would  look  so  elegant  that  the  king  would  invite  her  to  a  ball  at  his 
palace,  where  the  prince  would  fall  in  love  with  her,  and  propose  to  her.  Just 
then,  the  jug  of  milk  fell  from  her  head!  The  milk  spilled  onto  the  ground, 
and  her  dreams  crashed  around  her! 


77.  THE  FISHERMAN  AND  HIS  FLUTE 

A  fisherman  also  played  the  flute  very  well.  Carrying  his  flute  and  fish- 
basket,  he  climbed  onto  a  rock  one  day  and  began  playing  his  flute.  He  felt 
sure  that  the  fish  would  jump  into  his  basket  after  listening  to  his  melodious 
music.  But  he  could  not  catch  any  fish,  so  he  returned  home,  brought  his  net, 


and  cast  it  in  the  water.  Soon,  his  basket  was  overflowing  with  fish. 

As  the  fish  twisted  and  turned  in  the  net,  he  shouted:  ‘You’re  silly  creatures. 
You  didn’t  dance  when  I  was  playing  my  flute;  I’m  not  playing  now  but 
you’re  still  dancing!’ 


78.  TOM’S  CRUMBS 

A  poor,  hard-working  woodcutter  had  a  wife  and  seven  children.  He  could 
never  provide  a  decent  meal  to  his  family.  Tearfully,  he  and  his  wife  decided 
to  leave  their  children  in  the  forest.  He  felt  that  the  children  would  survive  on 
fruits  there,  but  would  definitely  die  of  starvation  with  their  parents.  Tom, 
their  youngest  child,  overheard  them.  Before  they  left,  he  stuffed  his  pockets 
with  little  white  stones.  From  time  to  time,  he  dropped  a  stone  on  the  path 
behind.  Once  the  parents  had  gone  after  bidding  farewell  to  their  children,  the 
children  followed  the  white  stones  and  returned  home! 


After  two  days,  the  parents  again  went  to  leave  the  children.  It  was  early 
dawn  and  Tom  could  not  gather  the  stones.  He  dropped  bread  crumbs  instead, 
which  the  birds  ate  up!  This  time,  the  children  were  truly  lost.  Scared  of  the 
wild  beasts,  they  began  to  cry.  Just  then,  they  heard  their  parents  crying  out 
for  them.  Luckily,  a  woodsman  had  repaid  an  old  debt  to  their  father,  and  the 
parents  had  come  to  fetch  their  children  back.  They  hugged  their  children, 
and  vowed  never  to  leave  them  again.  That  day,  the  rejoicing  in  their  family 
surpassed  a  royal  celebration. 


79.  THE  BROTHER,  THE  SISTER,  AND  THE  WITCH 


Once,  a  brother  and  sister  were  playing  on  the  riverside,  when  a  witch  took 
them  away  to  her  home.  But,  they  escaped  one  day.  The  witch  found  out  and 
soon  rushed  after  them.  A  good  fairy  was  passing  by  when  she  saw  the 
children’s  plight  and  helped  them.  She  built  a  huge  ring  of  fire  around  them 
for  their  safety,  but  the  witch  blew  out  the  flames!  Then,  the  fairy  made  a  tall 
glass  wall;  it  was  so  smooth  that  nobody  could  climb  it.  Seeing  this,  the  witch 
went  to  her  house  to  get  a  hammer  to  break  the  walls.  In  the  meantime,  the 
fairy  spirited  away  the  children  to  the  safety  of  their  home! 


80.  THE  WOODEN  CALF 


In  a  certain  village,  everybody  was  rich  except  one  man  who  owned  nothing. 
He  wanted  to  possess  at  least  a  calf,  so  he  carved  a  wooden  one.  The  calf’s 
head  moved  and  its  tail  swung,  making  it  look  real!  The  simple  man  hoped 
that  his  calf  would  become  a  cow  one  day!  The  next  day,  he  gave  his  calf  to 
the  shepherd  to  take  him  to  pasture,  saying:  ‘You  will  have  to  carry  him  as  he 
is  young  and  hasn’t  learnt  to  walk.’  The  good  shepherd  carried  the  calf  to  a 
meadow,  where  he  left  it  to  nibble  at  the  grass. 

When  it  was  time  to  return,  the  shepherd  called  out  to  the  calf  but  it  did  not 
budge.  The  tired  shepherd  exclaimed:  ‘Well,  if  you  can  eat  by  yourself,  you 
can  also  return  on  your  own,’  and  left.  When  the  poor  man  found  that  the 
shepherd  had  left  his  calf  in  the  meadow,  he  was  angry.  Together  they  went 
back  but  the  calf  was  not  there!  The  poor  man  complained  to  a  judge  that  the 
shepherd  had  not  looked  after  his  calf.  The  judge  agreed  and  told  the 
shepherd  to  give  a  cow  to  the  poor  man  to  make  good  his  loss.  So,  the 
wooden  calf  did  turn  into  a  cow! 


81.  THE  LANGUAGE  STUDENT 

A  very  wealthy  man  sent  his  son  abroad  to  get  the  best  education.  The  youth 
returned  after  learning  the  language  of  dogs!  The  furious  father  drove  his  son 
out  from  his  home.  The  young  man  wandered  about,  till  he  reached  a  village 
where  a  pack  of  ferocious  dogs  had  scared  the  locals  to  death.  The  youth  met 
the  dogs,  despite  warnings  from  the  villagers.  He  returned  and  told  the  locals 


that  the  dogs  were  bound  by  a  spell  to  guard  a  valuable  treasure  chest  buried 
in  the  woods.  With  the  dogs’  consent,  he  dug  up  the  chest.  The  dogs  never 
troubled  the  locals  again. 

The  youth  returned  to  his  father’s  home  in  a  luxurious  carriage,  with  many 
carts  full  of  riches.  And  the  astonished  father  never  insulted  his  son  again! 


82.  THE  OLD  HOUSE  ON  THE  STREET 

In  a  street  full  of  modern  buildings,  there  was  one  old  house.  A  very  rich,  old 
man  lived  there  alone.  Opposite  him,  lived  a  small  boy.  After  exchanging 
smiles  for  long,  the  old  man  invited  the  little  fellow  over,  treating  him  to  a 
drink  of  hot  chocolate  and  delicious  snacks.  They  became  good  friends.  The 
child  returned  again  and  again,  to  drink  the  hot  chocolate  and  eat  the  snacks 


that  the  old  man  made  for  him.  Returning  the  affection,  the  boy  parted  with 
one  of  his  dear  tin  soldiers  and  gifted  it  to  his  old  friend!  Soon  after,  the  old 
man  died.  In  the  place  of  the  old  house,  an  elegant  villa  came  up.  And  the 
small  boy  went  to  live  there  after  his  marriage! 

He  and  his  wife  were  once  digging  in  their  garden,  when  his  finger  got 
stabbed.  He  found  his  little  tin  soldier  with  its  sharp  bayonet!  Lovingly,  he 
cleaned  it  and  placed  it  on  his  hearth,  as  a  happy  reminder  of  his  childhood 
and  dear  old  friend! 


83.  THE  GNOME  AND  THE  FARMER 


One  day,  a  farmer  saw  a  gnome  resting  in  his  field.  Immediately,  he  sensed 
that  a  treasure  must  be  buried  there.  When  he  asked,  the  gnome  said:  ‘Indeed! 
There’s  more  silver  and  gold  buried  beneath  than  you  could  have  ever  seen!’ 

The  farmer  claimed  it,  as  the  field  was  his.  But  this  gnome  was  not  nice.  He 
told  the  farmer:  ‘The  treasure  will  be  yours,  only  if  you  give  me  half  of  what 
you  harvest  during  the  coming  two  years.’  The  farmer  agreed  but  told  the 
gnome  that  he  should  take  what  lay  on  the  top,  while  he  would  take  whatever 
lay  on  the  bottom.  The  gnome  happily  agreed.  During  the  next  two  years,  the 
farmer  cunningly  planted  potatoes.  All  that  appeared  on  the  top  soil  was 
useless  to  the  gnome.  Realising  he  had  been  tricked,  the  gnome  left  for  good. 
And  the  farmer  dug  out  the  treasure  from  below! 


84.  THE  STONE-BREAKER  AND  THE  MOUNTAIN 

A  Japanese  stone-breaker  was  exhausted  once  and  wished  he  could  lead  the 
luxurious  life  led  by  rich,  fat  merchants.  His  wish  came  true!  He  then  saw  a 
mandarin  being  carried  by  his  servants.  He  wished  to  be  a  mandarin.  Even 
that  came  true!  But  the  mandarin  was  under  the  emperor’s  command,  so  he 
wanted  to  be  the  emperor.  This  wish,  also,  was  granted!  He  was  given  the 
emperor’s  title:  the  Son  of  the  Sun.  But,  scorched  by  the  sun,  he  longed  to  be 
in  the  sun’s  place!  At  once,  he  became  the  sun;  but  when  a  cloud  covered 
him,  he  longed  to  be,  and  became,  a  cloud!  Thinking  the  wind  was  more 
powerful,  he  became  the  wind!  When  the  wind  blew  against  a  mountain,  he 
wanted  to  and  became  a  mountain.  Then,  hearing  the  stone-breakers  hammer 
powerful  blows  as  they  dug  out  rocks  from  the  mountain,  he  chose  to  be  a 
stone-breaker  all  over  again. 


85.  THE  STALLION  AND  ITS  MASTER 

Long  ago,  there  was  a  very  valiant  and  strong  prince,  Dimitri.  He  wanted  a 
fiery  horse  of  his  own,  and  sought  the  advice  of  his  cavalry  captain.  The 
captain  told  him:  ‘My  lord,  if  you  uproot  this  oak  tree,  I’ll  be  able  to  judge 
which  horse  will  suit  you  most.’  Dimitri  pulled  out  the  tree  as  if  it  were  a 
blade  of  grass!  Under  its  roots,  was  a  richly  decorated  battle  axe,  a  set  of 
ornate  reins,  and  a  carved  saddle.  Choosing  the  strongest  stallion,  he  tied  it  to 
a  strong  rope,  and  made  it  circle  the  pasture  countless  times.  The  animal 
became  exhausted.  Then,  Dimitri  tightly  tied  the  saddle  on  its  back,  slung  the 
reins,  jumped  on  to  it,  and  rode  off.  The  horse  set  off  furiously,  but  couldn’t 
throw  Dimitri  off.  Finally,  it  accepted  its  master,  but  asked  for  three  days  of 


freedom.  The  stallion  returned,  and  after  that  the  two  were  inseparable. 


86.  THE  KEY  IN  THE  FLAX 

A  very  wealthy  young  man  wanted  to  marry.  He  wanted  a  wife  who  was  not 
just  good  and  lovely,  but  also  industrious.  He  visited  the  house  of  some 
friends,  who  had  a  daughter  of  marriageable  age,  without  telling  them  about 
his  intentions.  He  was  surprised  to  find  a  large  flax  bundle,  a  spinning-wheel 
and  the  spinner  stuck  into  the  flax.  He  asked  the  mother  if  her  daughter  alone 
spun  and  wove  the  flax,  saying  it  must  be  taking  her  a  long  time.  The  mother 


wanted  him  to  think  well  of  her  daughter,  and  said:  ‘She  can  do  this  very 
fast!’  The  rich  youth  pretended  to  believe  her,  but  stole  the  key  of  their 
storeroom  and  hid  it  under  the  flax  bundle.  He  left  then,  to  return  a  month 
later.  His  friend’s  mother  said  that  their  storeroom’s  key  was  nowhere  to  be 
found.  At  once,  the  rich  youth  went  to  the  flax  bundle.  Picking  up  the  key 
lying  there,  he  said:  ‘Maybe  your  daughter  spins  and  weaves  very  fast,  but 
she  doesn’t  seem  to  work  often!’ 


87.  LITTLE  TUK 

A  little  Spanish  boy,  Tuk,  was  studying  geography  one  afternoon,  but  also 
had  to  look  after  Wenche,  his  little  sister,  who  wanted  to  play.  After  juggling 
for  long  between  play  and  study,  he  found  Denmark’s  geography  very 


complicated!  He  put  his  geography  book  beneath  his  pillow  before  he  slept, 
for  he’d  heard  that  this  was  the  best  way  of  learning  lessons!  Climbing  into 
his  bed,  he  fell  asleep.  But  his  book  seemed  to  move  about  under  his  pillow, 
scratching  him.  Tuk  was  not  in  bed  now,  but  on  a  splendid  white  horse,  as  a 
magnificently  dressed  knight  wearing  a  helmet  with  plumes,  held  him  in 
front.  They  galloped  on  and  on.  Fascinatingly,  he  saw  every  city  of  Denmark 
appear  before  him,  and  the  knight  told  him  the  history  of  each. 

At  dawn,  Tuk  scrambled  out  of  bed,  and  began  to  read  his  book  again,  when 
he  suddenly  felt  he  knew  everything!  Remembering  the  knight,  he  said: 
Thanks,  my  friend,’  with  a  smile  on  his  lips  and  a  song  in  his  heart. 


88.  THE  MISADVENTURES  OF  TOM  THUMB 

When  Tom  Thumb  was  escaping  from  the  circus,  he  hid  inside  some  hay  in  a 
stable.  The  farmer’s  wife  picked  up  the  hay  to  feed  the  cows,  and  Tom 
Thumb  awoke  to  find  himself  in  a  cow’s  stomach!  As  the  cow  took  in  more 
hay,  Tom  Thumb  cried  out:  ‘Stop  crushing  me!’  The  farmer’s  wife  couldn’t 
believe  her  ears!  When  her  husband  heard  the  strange  voice,  he  thought  it 
was  an  evil  spirit  and  killed  the  cow.  The  cow  was  gobbled  up  by  a  wolf. 


with  Tom  Thumb  inside!  He  persuaded  the  wolf  to  go  to  his  home,  saying 
that  it  would  find  plenty  of  meat  there!  When  they  had  reached,  he  began 
yelling  at  the  top  of  his  voice.  His  father  heard  him.  Killing  the  wolf,  he 
brought  his  son  out.  The  repentant  father  told  Tom  Thumb:  ‘For  not  all  the 
world’s  gold,  will  I  ever  sell  you  again.’  And  he  kept  his  word. 


89.  THE  TSAR  AND  THE  MUGIK 


A  Russian  peasant,  a  mugik,  was  hoeing  the  earth,  when  the  great  tsar  came 
and  asked  him  how  much  he  earned.  The  mugik  replied:  ‘Eighty  roubles. 
Sire.’  The  tsar  asked:  ‘What  do  you  do  with  this  money?’  The  peasant 
replied:  ‘I  spend  a  quarter  on  paying  my  taxes;  I  pay  off  my  debts  with 
another  quarter;  the  third  quarter  I  lend;  and,  throw  the  last  quarter  out  of  my 
window.’  The  tsar  only  understood  about  the  taxes.  The  mugik  explained: 
‘By  looking  after  my  father.  I’m  paying  the  debt  I  owe  him  for  bringing  me 
up.  I’m  loaning  money  to  my  son  by  looking  after  him,  so  that  he  will  look 
after  me  when  I’m  old.  The  money  that  I’m  throwing  out  is  what  I’m  saving 
for  my  daughter’s  marriage,  who  will  leave  me  once  she’s  married!’ 


90.  TOM  THUMB 


A  poor  woodcutter’s  wife  wanted  a  child  very  badly  and  wished  to  have  a 
son,  even  if  he  was  as  tall  as  her  thumb.  Her  wish  came  true!  The  parents 
named  him  Tom  Thumb.  He  was  very  clever.  Once,  his  mother  could  not  go 
to  fetch  his  father,  so  Tom  Thumb  took  the  cart.  He  climbed  right  up  to  the 
horse’s  ear,  telling  it  where  to  go.  People  could  not  see  him,  and  thought  that 
the  horse  was  very  intelligent!  Hearing  of  this,  a  circus  owner  wanted  to  buy 
the  horse  but  found  that  it  was  Tom  Thumb  who  had  been  guiding  it.  Now,  he 
wanted  to  buy  the  little  boy.  His  father  couldn’t  think  of  selling  his  son,  but 
Tom  Thumb  said:  ‘Father,  we  need  the  money;  so  sell  me,  and  I’ll  set  matters 
right.’  His  father  did  that.  And  soon,  the  tiny  Tom  Thumb  ran  back  to  his 
home,  unseen  by  anyone! 


91.  A  POOR  MAN  IN  PARADISE 

A  poor  man  and  a  rich  man  reached  the  gates  of  paradise  together.  After 
peering  through  the  peephole.  Saint  Peter  came  outside  with  a  big  bunch  of 
keys  tied  around  his  waist.  Opening  the  gate,  he  straightaway  led  the  wealthy 
man  in,  leaving  the  poor  man  outside!  The  gate  shut  again  and  heavenly 
music  and  songs  poured  out.  The  poor  man  felt  sorry  at  being  left  out  of  the 


heavenly  party! 

He  waited  patiently,  till  Saint  Peter  came  again  to  open  the  gate  for  him. 
There  was  utter  silence.  No  heavenly  singing  and  dancing  did  the  poor  man 
hear!  As  the  friendly  angels  led  him  in  gently,  the  poor  man  lamented  that, 
even  in  paradise,  rich  people  were  more  privileged  than  others.  The  angels 
hastened  to  tell  him:  That’s  not  true!  You  will  receive  the  same  eternal 
happiness  as  the  rich  man.  But  while  we  get  scores  of  poor  people  each  day,  a 
rich  man  makes  it  to  paradise  just  about  once  in  a  hundred  years!’ 


92.  THE  MADONNA’S  CUP 


Hundreds  of  years  ago,  a  heavy  wagon  got  stuck  in  a  muddy  path.  The  wagon 
driver  struggled  to  free  it  but  failed.  Just  then,  the  Madonna  came  by.  She 
told  the  driver  to  give  her  a  drink  of  water;  in  exchange,  she  would  set  his 
wagon  free. 

The  driver  didn’t  know  that  she  was  Mother  Mary,  but  willingly  offered  her 
his  water  bottle,  saying  that  he  didn’t  have  a  cup.  The  Madonna  told  him  not 
to  worry. 

Breaking  off  a  white,  trumpet-shaped  flower  bearing  red  stripes,  she  used  it 
as  a  cup!  Ever  since  then  that  flower,  the  convolvulus,  is  known  as  The 
Madonna’s  Cup. 


93.  PRINCE  IVAN  AND  THE  FIRE  BIRD 


The  tsar  was  seething  with  anger.  Many  nights  he’d  seen  a  fiery,  red  bird 
stealing  his  golden  apples.  He  told  his  son,  Ivan,  to  catch  the  bird.  When  the 
bird  came  that  night,  Ivan  managed  to  chase  it  away.  Following  it,  he  met  a 
magical  wolf,  which  carried  Ivan  to  a  castle.  It  told  Ivan  that  the  fire-bird  was 
inside.  But  no  sooner  had  Ivan  touched  its  golden  cage  that  he  was  caught. 
Ivan  confessed  everything  to  the  king.  The  king  said  that  he  would  give  Ivan 
the  fire-bird,  but  first  he  would  have  to  bring  to  him  the  lovely  princess, 
Helen  the  Fair. 

The  wolf  took  Ivan  to  the  castle  where  Helen  was  imprisoned.  Ivan 
succeeded  in  freeing  her  but  they  both  fell  in  love.  So,  the  wolf  hid  the 
princess  in  the  woods,  while  it  took  on  the  shape  of  the  princess,  and  led  Ivan 
to  the  king,  who  readily  gave  Ivan  the  fire-bird.  Ivan  left.  The  wolf  took  on 
his  original  form  and  escaped.  It  then  carried  Ivan  and  the  princess  to  his 
home,  where  they  got  married.  And  the  tsar  was  very  happy  to  get  the  fire¬ 
bird  in  its  cage. 


94.  GOLDILOCKS  AND  THE  THREE  BEARS 

A  family  of  three  bears  lived  in  a  cottage  in  the  forest;  Father  Bear,  Mother 
Bear,  and  Little  Bear.  After  preparing  porridge  one  day,  the  bear  family  went 
for  a  stroll.  Meanwhile,  a  little  girl,  Goldilocks,  saw  their  cottage  and  entered 
it! 

Seeing  the  porridge,  she  tried  it.  Father  Bear’s  porridge  was  very  hot.  Mother 
Bear’s  porridge  was  very  cold,  but  Little  Bear’s  porridge  was  just  right,  so 


she  ate  all  of  it.  Looking  around  she  saw  three  chairs.  She  sat  in  all  of  them 
but  the  little  chair  suited  her.  However,  she  sat  down  so  suddenly  that  it 
broke.  Goldilocks  then  went  upstairs  to  the  bedroom.  She  found  the  little  bed 
was  the  best,  so  she  lay  there  and  fell  fast  asleep.  On  returning,  the  three 
bears  saw  the  mess.  Little  Bear  cried  that  his  porridge  had  been  eaten  and  his 
chair  was  broken!  They  went  upstairs  to  find  a  little  girl  sleeping  in  his  bed! 
As  Little  Bear  began  to  cry.  Goldilocks  woke  up.  Seeing  the  bear  family,  she 
jumped  out  of  the  window  and  ran  to  her  house! 


95.  THE  TWO  FRIENDS  AND  THE  BEAR 


Two  friends,  John  and  James,  were  crossing  a  wood,  when  suddenly  they 
came  across  a  big  bear.  At  once,  they  tried  to  run  away,  while  the  bear  gave 
chase.  John  climbed  np  a  tree  and  hid  in  it.  The  bear  was  almost  upon  James, 
when  he  fell  down  and  pretended  to  be  dead,  holding  his  breath.  He  knew 
that  bears  only  attack  living  creatures.  After  thoroughly  sniffing  at  James  all 
over,  the  bear  went  away.  Once  the  bear  had  disappeared  from  sight,  John 
came  down  from  the  tree.  Trying  to  make  light  of  their  scary  experience,  he 
asked  James:  ‘What  did  the  bear  whisper  in  your  ear?’  But,  James  was  angry 
with  his  friend.  Looking  straight  at  John,  he  said:  ‘The  bear  warned  me  to 
never  again  go  with  a  friend  who  ditches  me  in  times  of  trouble!’ 


96.  THE  COW  AND  THE  PRINCESS 

Long  ago,  a  queen  had  given  birth  to  a  lovely  girl,  but  soon  died.  The  king 
married  again,  hoping  the  new  queen  would  look  after  his  princess.  But  the 
new  queen  had  three  ugly  daughters  and  was  very  jealous  of  her  lovely 
stepdaughter.  Out  of  spite,  she  made  the  princess  wear  rags  and  work  as  a 
farmhand,  taking  Brindle,  her  cow,  out  to  pasture  by  herself!  Each  day,  when 
she  was  far  away,  the  princess  would  climb  into  one  of  Brindle ’s  ears,  and 
come  out  of  the  other  ear,  clothed  and  well  fed!  Before  returning,  she  would 


again  climb  into  one  of  the  cow’s  ears  and  appear  from  the  other  one  in  rags! 

As  the  princess  seemed  healthy,  the  stepmother  sensed  something  was  wrong. 
She  sent  her  eldest  daughter  with  the  princess,  but  the  princess  sang  a  sweet 
lullaby,  and  put  her  off  to  sleep.  The  same  thing  happened  to  the  middle 
daughter.  The  youngest  did  not  fall  asleep  and  saw  everything.  But  she  didn’t 
tell  her  mother.  The  next  day  she,  too,  went  inside  Brindle’s  ear,  but  took  a 
wrong  turn  so  that  when  she  came  out,  she  had  become  a  calf! 


97.  THE  RIGHT  BRIDE 

As  a  young  shepherd  knew  three  beautiful  girls,  he  couldn’t  decide  whom  he 


should  marry.  When  he  sought  his  mother’s  advice,  she  told  him  to  invite 
them  for  dinner  and  observe  how  they  cut  the  cheese.  The  youth  did  as  his 
mother  had  said. 

One  girl  ate  the  rind  along  with  the  cheese,  while  another  cut  the  rind  but 
with  it  she  also  removed  a  lot  of  edible  cheese. 

The  third  girl  removed  the  correct  amount  of  rind  leaving  the  edible  cheese 
intact,  and  the  mother  knew  for  sure.  ‘She’s  the  right  one,’  she  whispered  into 
her  son’s  ear. 


98.  THE  LANTERN  ON  THE  OAK 


When  time  had  just  begun  on  earth,  the  nights  were  totally  dark.  Four  men 
travelling  together,  reached  a  village  bathed  in  a  silvery  light,  and  were 
greatly  surprised!  In  the  village  square,  a  large  round  globe  hung  from  an  oak 
tree’s  branches.  A  villager  told  them:  This  is  the  moon.  Our  mayor 
purchased  it.  It  has  to  be  regularly  cleaned  and  filled  with  oil,  for  which  we 
pay  him  a  ducat  every  week.’ 

The  four  friends  thought  that  for  such  a  small  sum  of  money,  the  moon  was  a 
good  bargain.  They  stole  it.  Taking  it  to  their  town,  they  hung  it  high  up  on 
another  big  oak  tree.  By  this  time,  the  real  owners  knew  who’d  stolen  their 
moon  and  came  to  that  town.  The  noise  they  made  reached  the  Lord  way  up 
in  the  sky!  Angry  at  being  disturbed,  the  Lord  sent  an  angel  to  bring  the 
moon,  and  stuck  it  to  the  sky,  for  it  to  shine  freely  on  everything! 


99.  THE  POPPY’S  RIDDLE 

A  wicked  witch  cast  an  evil  spell  on  a  charming  woman,  changing  her  into  a 
poppy.  Each  evening  she  became  her  normal  self  and  spent  the  night  in  her 
home.  One  dawn,  as  she  was  about  to  return  to  the  field,  she  told  her 
husband:  The  witch’s  spell  can  be  broken  if  you  can  select  me  in  the  field.’ 

The  man  wondered  how  he  would  recognise  his  wife  from  among  thousands 
of  other  poppies.  Then,  he  realised  that  since  she’d  been  home  at  night,  she 


would  be  the  only  poppy  not  covered  by  dew  in  the  morning! 


100.  INDECISIVE  ELSA 

Once,  Elsa  went  to  help  her  husband  in  harvesting  the  grain.  She  pondered: 
‘Should  I  first  harvest  the  grain  or  have  my  lunch?’  She  ate  lunch  first,  after 
which  she  had  a  catnap.  When  her  husband  came,  he  found  her  asleep  and 
decided  to  teach  his  wife  a  lesson  by  covering  her  with  a  net  used  for 
catching  birds. 

On  waking  up,  Elsa  found  herself  in  a  net  and  began  worrying:  ‘Am  I  me  or 
am  I  not?’  She  decided  to  go  home  and  ask  her  family!  Finding  the  front  door 


closed,  she  called  out:  ‘Is  Elsa  in?’  Her  husband  answered:  ‘She’s  here!’  Elsa 
thought:  ‘If  Elsa  is  inside,  then  I  can’t  be  Elsa.’  Then,  the  confused  woman 
went  to  all  the  houses  asking  if  Elsa  was  there,  only  to  be  told:  ‘No,  she’s  not 
here.’  Some  people  say  that  even  today  she  wanders  about,  looking  for 
herself! 


101.  THE  THREE  PAINTERS 


A  town  had  three  famous  painters  who  were  very  good  friends.  People  used 
to  come  from  far  and  wide  to  see  their  exhibitions.  The  townsfolk  thought  it 
fit  to  honour  the  best  painter.  They  decided  to  hold  a  competition  for  only 
these  three  painters.  The  friends  agreed.  They  were  given  ten  days  to  create  a 
new  painting.  An  exhibition  was  held  and  many  people  came.  Everyone 
admired  the  beautiful  paintings.  Some  considered  that  these  were  the  best  that 
the  artists  had  painted.  One  artist  had  painted  a  lovely  garden  and  the  flowers 
seemed  to  be  real!  The  second  artist  painted  an  orchard  full  of  shiny  red 
apples.  The  apples  looked  so  real  that  a  cow  tried  to  eat  them.  The  judge 
congratulated  both  the  painters.  Then,  he  turned  to  the  third  painting.  It  had  a 
curtain  hanging  over  it.  But,  when  the  judge  tried  to  push  away  the  curtain,  he 
realised  that  the  curtain  was  not  real!  He  reasoned:  T  am  an  intelligent  man, 
not  a  dumb  cow!  Yet,  I  was  deceived  by  the  curtain.  So,  the  artist  who  made 
this  painting  deserves  the  prize.’  And  even  the  artist’s  friends  agreed. 


